= Running Integration Tests on Blackbox =
Locally, we run integration tests on the {{{blackbox.cs}}} server. These tests are intended to test large portions of the Seattle system end-to-end.

[[TOC(inline)]]

== Configuration ==

 * Seattle blackbox tests live on blackbox.cs in /home/integrationtester/cron_tests/
 * The tests run as the integrationtester user on a cron schedule scheduled by the user cron of the integrationtester user
 * The test logs are written to /home/integrationtester/cron_logs/

== centralizedputget Test ==

=== Purpose ===
Attempt to put a (k,v) into our centralized hash table and then get it back. On error send an email to some folks.

=== Deployment ===
To deploy centralizedputget, run the deploy_centralizedputget.py located in trunk/integrationtests/deployment_scripts/. Run the script with the option -c in order to set up the crontab on the machine as well to run centralizedputget once an hour.

In order to set everything up, create a folder in the same directory that the folder trunk/ is located <folder_1>. Create a second folder <target_folder> where you want to deploy the centralizedputget script. Run preparetest.py on <folder_1>. Then copy over the file deploy_centralizedputget.py and setup_crontab.py from the deploy_scripts/ folder to <folder_1>. Copy over preparetest.py from trunk/ to <folder_1> Then run the deploy_centralizedputget script using the following line:
{{{
python deploy_centralizedputget.py -c <target_folder> <target_log_folder>
}}}
<target_log_folder> is the folder where you want the logs from the centralizedputget script to be stored.

=== Schedule ===
This script runs once an hour. The current crontab line on blackbox looks like:
{{{
0 * * * * export GMAIL_USER='seattle.devel@gmail.com' && export GMAIL_PWD='repyrepy' && /usr/bin/python /home/integrationtester/deploy_test/centralizedputget.py > /home/integrationtester/deploy_test/cron_log.centralizedputget
}}}


== opendhtputget Test ==

=== Purpose ===
Attempt to put a (k,v) into OpenDHT and then get it back. On error send an email to some folks.

=== Deployment ===
To deploy opendhtputget, run the deploy_opendhtputget.py located in trunk/integrationtests/deployment_scripts/. Run the script with the option -c in order to set up the crontab on the machine as well to run opendhtputget once an hour. 

In order to set everything up, create a folder in the same directory that the folder trunk/ is located <folder_1>. Create a second folder <target_folder> where you want to deploy the opendhtputget script. Run preparetest.py on <folder_1>. Then copy over the file deploy_opendhtputget.py and setup_crontab.py from the deploy_scripts/ folder to <folder_1>. Copy over preparetest.py from trunk/ to <folder_1> Then run the deploy_centralizedputget script using the following line:
{{{
python deploy_opendhtputget.py -c <target_folder> <target_log_folder>
}}}
<target_log_folder> is the folder where you want the logs from the opendhtputget script to be stored.

=== Schedule ===
This script runs once an hour. The current crontab line on blackbox looks like:
{{{
30 * * * * export GMAIL_USER='seattle.devel@gmail.com' && export GMAIL_PWD='repyrepy' && /usr/bin/python /home/integrationtester/deploy_test/opendhtputget.py > /home/integrationtester/deploy_test/cron_log.opendhtputget
}}}


== downloadandinstallseattle Test ==

=== Purpose ===
Download, install and check the resulting Seattle installation for correct state (onepercent state).

=== Deployment ===
To deploy downloadandinstallseattle, run the deploy_downloadandinstallseattle.py located in trunk/integrationtests/deployment_scripts/. Run the script with the option -c in order to set up the crontab on the machine as well to run downloadandinstallseattle once a day. 

In order to set everything up, create a folder in the same directory that the folder trunk/ is located <folder_1>. Create a second folder <target_folder> where you want to deploy the downloadandinstallseattle script. Run preparetest.py on <folder_1>. Then copy over the file deploy_downloadandinstallseattle.py and setup_crontab.py from the deploy_scripts/ folder to <folder_1>. Copy over preparetest.py from trunk/ to <folder_1> Then run the deploy_downloadandinstallseattle script using the following line:
{{{
python deploy_downloadandinstallseattle.py -c <target_folder> <target_log_folder>
}}}
<target_log_folder> is the folder where you want the logs from the downloadandinstallseattle script to be stored.

=== Schedule ===
This script runs once a day. The current crontab line on blackbox looks like:
{{{
15 16 * * * export GMAIL_USER='seattle.devel@gmail.com' && export GMAIL_PWD='repyrepy' && /usr/bin/python /home/integrationtester/deploy_test/downloadandinstallseattle.py > /home/integrationtester/deploy_test/cron_log.downloadandinstallseattle
}}}


