= Setting up SSH server on Windows =

[[TOC(inline)]]
----

== Information ==

We are going to use a free program called Moba SSH. It is a tool to setup and run a SSH server on the windows machine allowing all users to ssh into to windows machine. To learn more about Moba SSH, visit their official website by [http://mobassh.mobatek.net/en/ clicking here].

== Downloads ==
----

Download the install file by visiting the Moba SSH website. Go to the [http://mobassh.mobatek.net/en/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=93&Itemid=55 download link] and get the latest version. Currently the machines in Sieg 319 are running MobaSSH Home v1.0.

== Installation ==
----

Installation is very simple for this program. Create a file in C:\Program Files\ called MobaSSH and save the downloaded file there. Simply run the exe file and follow the instructions. Once the installation is complete the interactive window should say "MobaSSH service is running" and "Installed version is up to date". In the task manager MobaSSH.exe should be running under the user sshdsvc. All the users should be automatically added and have permission to ssh into the machines. 

== Configuration ==
----

Most likely the windows firewall will be trying to block any incoming connection from other computers, so we are going to have to add an exception for this. SSH runs on port 22 in most cases. Go to control panel > Windows Firewall. Under the exceptions tab click on 'Add Port'. Name should be SSH and Port Number should be 22. Make sure that its TCP and not UDP. Click OK and make sure that under the exceptions tab SSH is ticked in the 'Programs and Services' window.

== Final Test ==
----

Go to a different machine and make sure you can use ssh to access the machine. The two windows machine name should be testbed-vista1.cs.washington.edu and testbed-xp2.cs.washington.edu

== Advanced Configuration ==
----

You can manually choose which users will have ssh access manually. To do this open up the exe file in C:\Program Files\MobaSSH. Hit the Users button on the right side of the panel and click on 'Selected users'. Once you have chosen all the users click on Restart button under the 'MobaSSH Service is running' on the left side of the panel. Any changes you made will not take place until you restart the MobaSSH service.

