= Trac Service =

This page describes how to install Trac, how to configure it, what plugins our Trac installation includes, etc. Finally it shows how to upgrade the Trac service to the latest version.

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----

== Dependencies ==
----

 * [http://trac.edgewall.org/ Trac] -- the beast
   * [http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/TracInstall Trac Dependencies]

[[BR]]
== Prerequisites ==
----
 * There should be a working subversion on the machine. For Seattle, our svn is located in /var/local/svn.
 * Apache should be installed on the machine.
  
[[BR]]
== Trac installation ==
----

There is two ways to install or get the latest version of Trac, you can either use easy_install to install Trac or you can download a version of Trac from [http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/TracDownload TracDownload] using wget.
{{{
easy_install Trac
}}}
or if downloading a version of Trac, then untar the downloaded file and run:
{{{
python setup.py install
}}}

During installation process the installer will ask for various information such as the project name, path to svn, etc.
For more details and advanced options about installations see [http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/TracInstall Trac installation] instructions for how to install Trac.

[[BR]]
== Configuration ==
----

Our Seattle Trac is installed in /var/local/trac/seattle/

The /var/local/trac/seattle/conf/trac.ini file is the main configuration file for Trac. Modify this file if you want to enable/disable critical options in Trac, such as the title text, the svn repository path, tickets configuration, etc.

2009-10-26: The following two configuration options were enabled to prevent people from accidentally not getting emails from Trac. The result will be a few emails that people don't want, but that's better than missing any.
  * always_notify_reporter
  * always_notify_updater
[[BR]]
=== Configuring Apache ===
In order to ensure that Trac is hosted properly, we have to modify some apache configuration files. The two main files are: /etc/apache2/ports.conf and /etc/apache2/sites-available/default.
'''Note:''' Every time some configuration is changed in the apache configuration file or in Trac configuration file then apache2 should be restarted to reflect the change. To restart apache2 run the command:
{{{
/etc/init.d/apache2 reload
}}} 

Here is what the apache configuration file on seattle.cs.washington.edu looks like:
'''default'''
{{{
#NameVirtualHost *:80
#NameVirtualHost *:443
NameVirtualHost 128.208.3.86:80
NameVirtualHost 128.208.3.86:443

# HTTP
<VirtualHost 128.208.3.86:80>
    ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
    DocumentRoot /var/www/
    ErrorLog /var/log/apache2/error.log

    # Possible values include: debug, info, notice, warn, error, crit,
    # alert, emerg.
    LogLevel warn

    CustomLog /var/log/apache2/access.log combined
    ServerSignature On

    <Directory />
        redirect permanent /index.html https://seattle.cs.washington.edu
        Options FollowSymLinks
        AllowOverride None
    </Directory>

    <Location /svn>
        DAV svn
        AuthzSVNAccessFile /var/local/svn/conf/authz
        SVNPath /var/local/svn/
    </Location>

    <Location /geni/>
        redirect permanent /geni/ https://seattlegeni.cs.washington.edu/geni/
#       redirect permanent /geni/ http://seattle.cs.washington.edu/geniseattle_downtime.html
        Options FollowSymLinks
    </Location>

</VirtualHost>

# SSL
<VirtualHost 128.208.3.86:443>
    ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost

    # Setting this seems to mess up the urls of the trac install. We should
    # probably figure out what implicit setting is being relied on, fix it,
    # and enable this so we don't have any surprises.
    #DocumentRoot /var/www/

    SSLEngine on
    SSLCertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/seattle.crt
    SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/apache2/ssl/seattle.key
    SSLCertificateChainFile /etc/apache2/ssl/gd_intermediate.crt

    ErrorLog /var/log/apache2/error.log
        # Possible values include: debug, info, notice, warn, error, crit,
        # alert, emerg.
    LogLevel warn
    CustomLog /var/log/apache2/access.log combined
#    ServerSignature On

 # this tests mod_python:
 #   <Location /mpinfo>
 #      SetHandler mod_python
 #      PythonInterpreter main_interpreter
 #      PythonHandler mod_python.testhandler
 #   </Location>

    Redirect permanent /customized_installer/ http://seattle.cs.washington.edu/customized_installer/

    <Location /geni/>
        redirect permanent /geni/ https://seattlegeni.cs.washington.edu/geni/
    #   redirect permanent /geni/ http://seattle.cs.washington.edu/geniseattle_downtime.html
        Options FollowSymLinks
    </Location>

    <Location /geni_dev_alpers/>
        SetHandler python-program
        PythonHandler django.core.handlers.modpython
        SetEnv DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE geni_dev_private.settings_alpers
        PythonOption django.root
        PythonDebug On
        PythonPath "['/home/ivan/geni_dev_private/', '/home/alpers/geni_dev/'] + sys.path"
    </Location>

    <Location /geni_dev_sean/>
        SetHandler python-program
        PythonHandler django.core.handlers.modpython
        SetEnv DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE geni_dev_private.settings_sean
        PythonOption django.root
        PythonDebug On
        PythonPath "['/home/ivan/geni_dev_private/', '/home/sean/geni_dev/'] + sys.path"
    </Location>

    <Location /autograder/>
        SetHandler python-program
        PythonHandler django.core.handlers.modpython
        SetEnv DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE autograder_private.settings
        PythonOption django.root
        PythonDebug On
        PythonPath "['/home/ivan/autograder_dev/'] + sys.path"
    </Location>

    <Directory />
        SetHandler mod_python
        PythonInterpreter main_interpreter
        PythonHandler trac.web.modpython_frontend
        PythonOption TracEnv /var/local/trac/seattle
    </Directory>

    Alias /irclogs /home/seattlebot/logs/ChannelLogger/freenode/#seattle
    <Location /irclogs>
      SetHandler None
    </Location>
    <Directory "/home/seattlebot/logs/ChannelLogger/freenode/#seattle">
      Options +Indexes
      Order allow,deny
      Allow from all
    </Directory>

    Alias /stats /var/www/stats
    <Location /stats>
      SetHandler None
    </Location>
</VirtualHost>
}}}

'''ports.conf'''
{{{
Listen 80

<IfModule mod_ssl.c>
    Listen 443
</IfModule>
}}}
[[BR]]
== Administration ==
----
If you log into Trac with an account that has admin priveliges. You will see an ''Admin'' tab on the left hand side. From this Admin page you can add new users, modify components (for Tickets), and perform numerous other actions.

If there are no admin to begin with and you want to add an admin for the first time, then on the machine that Trac is residing in type in the command:
{{{
$ trac-admin /path/to/my/project

Then on the Trac shell type in:

Trac [/var/local/trac/]> permission add username TRAC_ADMIN
Trac [/var/local/trac/]> permission list username
}}}

[[BR]]
== Backups and Restoration ==
----
=== Backup ===
It is very important to backup the Trac system as well as the Svn before upgrading or changing any configuration with the Trac system in case of failures. The command for backing up the Trac system is:
{{{
$ trac-admin /path/to/projenv hotcopy /path/to/backupdir
}}}
The command for backing up the subversion is:
{{{
$  svnadmin hotcopy /path/to/projenv /path/to/backupdir
}}}
'''Note:''' For both the Trac and Svn, the /path/to/backupdir folder should NOT exist as the trac-admin and svnadmin creates these folders. If the folders exist then the hotcopy fails.

'''Note''' that the command for svnadmin comes before the svn project path. There are other ways of creating backups for the svn, but for our purpose this should be sufficient. When both the Trac and Svn does a hotcopy, it locks the database so nothing changes. If it is unable to lock the database then it fails in doing the hotcopy.


=== Restore ===
Before we restore the Trac system we must ensure that the webserver is stopped so the database can be copied over safely. To do this type in the command:
{{{
/etc/init.d/apache2 stop
}}}

To restore the Trac system and Svn, just copy the backup folders to the right folder where the Trac and Svn projects should exist. Open up and edit /var/local/trac/conf/trac.ini to ensure that the svn path is set correctly in the configuration file. 

Next we have to sync up the svn with the Trac project. To do this type in the commands:
{{{
trac-admin /path/to/trac_project

This should give you a Trac shell. Once you enter the Trac shell type in the command resync to sync up the Svn with the Trac.

Trac [/var/local/trac/]> resync
}}}

Once everything is synced up then restart the webserver and everything should be good to go. To restart apache type in:
{{{
/etc/init.d/apache2 start

or if apache is already running

/etc/init.d/apache2 reload
}}}
[[BR]]
== Upgrading Trac ==
----

Make sure that before any upgrade to Trac is done, that both the old Trac and SVN are backed up (look in the backup and restore section). The upgrade is done in 5 easy steps, to find the steps go to the [http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/TracUpgrade TracUpgrade] site.

'''Remember to use Screen in order to the upgrade, in case you get disconnected from seattle.cs.washington.edu before the upgrade is completely done'''

[[BR]]
== Plugins ==
----

Trac is highly extensible. Numerous plug-ins for Trac can be found on the [http://trac-hacks.org/ Trac Hacks] website. Most of these plug-ins require root permission to install on seattle.cs.

Enabling/Disabling a plug-in requires making modifications to the /var/local/trac/seattle/conf/trac.ini file.

Our installation includes the following Plugins:

|| Plugin              || Version        || Enabled? || Purpose ||
|| NavAdd              || 0.1            || Y        || For adding navigation items into one of the navigation bars. ||
|| TracAccountManager  || 0.2.1dev-r3857 || Y        || User account management from the browser. ||
|| TracFullBlogPlugin  || 0.1            || Y        || Blog support. ||
|| TracGoogleAnalytics || 0.2.2          || Y        || Support for Google Analytics tracking. ||
|| TracMasterTickets   || 2.1.3          || Y        || Support for ticket dependencies and master tickets ||
|| TracNavHider        || 1.0            || Y        || Remove items from the Trac navigation bars.||
|| TracNewsFlash       || 1.0.1          || Y        || A Trac macro to make a colored box. ||
|| TracPyDotOrgTheme   || 2.0            || Y        || A theme for Trac based on python.org. ||
|| TracTags            || 0.6            || Y        || Tags plugin for Trac. ||
|| TracThemeEngine     || 2.0            || Y        || Provide a modular interface to styling Trac. ||
|| TracTocMacro        || 11.0.0.3       || Y        || A macro to create tables of contents. ||
|| TracWikiRename      || 2.1.1          || Y        || Add simple support for renaming/moving wiki pages. ||
|| TracPermRedirect    || 2.0            || N*       || Redirect users to the login screen on PermissionError. ||
|| TracConsultantTheme || 1.0            || N*       || A theme. ||
|| TracGamedevTheme    || 1.0            || N*       || A theme. ||
|| TracIncludeMacro    || 2.1            || Y*       || Include support for external html, etc||

[[BR]]
== Important Links ==
----
 * [http://trac.edgewall.org/ Trac]
 * [http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/TracInstall TracInstall]
 * [http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/TracDownload TracDownload]
 * [http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/0.11/TracOnUbuntu TracOnUbuntu]
 * [http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/TracUpgrade TracUpgrade]

