= Benchmark and Custom Installer Info =

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----

[[BR]]
== Overview of current scheme ==
[[BR]]
=== Required from the server side ===
Before an install is ready for the user, the server will be required to construct a properly formated vesselinfo file. The vesselinfo file will need to be in the same directory as seattleinstaller.py (the working directory at install time). Every public key file that is referenced in the vesselinfo file will need to be placed in this same directory. 
[[BR]]
==== The format for vesselinfo ====
    ===== Example ===== Actual key's for owner and user will be much longer.
    {{{
Percent 40
Owner 123456789123 123456789123456789123456789
User 23456789123 23456789123456789123456789
Percent 20
Owner 3456789123 3456789123456789123456789
Percent 20
Owner 456789123 456789123456789123456789
}}}
    ~~In addition to this vesselinfo file, there would need to be the following files in the same directory: mike.publickey, jen.publickey, sam.publickey, and seattle.publickey. All the publickeys must be in a file format recognized by the seattlelib rsa module.~~

    ===== Requirements =====
    Restrictions on vesselinfo (failure in any of these results in a completely failed install):
    * Percent must be an integer 10, 20, 30, ..., 80, 90
    * There can be NO empty lines.[[BR]]

    '''BAD:'''
{{{
Percent 40
Owner 123456789123 123456789123456789123456789
User 23456789123 23456789123456789123456789

Percent 20
Owner 3456789123 3456789123456789123456789
Percent 20
Owner 456789123 456789123456789123456789
}}}


    * The sum of all the Percent values must be 100
    * Case matters for '''P'''ercent, '''O'''wner, '''U'''ser
    * The values for Owner and User should be the publickey strings that can be read by rsa_string_to_publickey (NOT the file name). 
    * vesselinfo must be in the same directory as seattleinstaller.py when the user attempts to install.
    ===== Difference from old scheme =====
    Compared to the previous system to created custom installer, now the server only needs create the vesselinfo file and get the keys, they not longer need to run any script to generate the vessels.
[[BR]]
=== Necessary files ===
Before the installer can run, several files need to be in place for benchmark_resources.py that are critical for constructing the vessels (other files may be needed for install, these are just the critical ones for benchmarking and creating the initial vessel state). 

Files that are universal to all installations:
 * vessel.restrictions - This is a static file, these are universal to all installations.
 * resources.offcut - This is a static file, these are predetermined values and are universal to all installations.

Files that are unique to a single distribution
 * vesselinfo 
   * This is a specially formatted file that indicates the percentage of system resources and publickeys for the owners and users of the vessels that should be in the node. 

Python modules involved
 * seattleinstaller.py
 * benchmark_resources.py 
   * manages and runs the benchmark scripts as well as operating the create_installer_state module.
 * create_installer_state.py 
   * is responsible for reading the vesselinfo file and taking the resource information to initialize the vessels.
 * Win_WinCE_resources.py 
   * OS specific resource benchmark
 * Mac_BSD_resources.py 
   * OS specific resource benchmark
 * Linux_resources.py 
   * OS specific resource benchmark
 * measuredisk.py 
   * used by each OS benchmark
 * measure_random.py 
   * used by each OS benchmark

[[BR]]
=== Build steps ===
 1. Server should collect necessary files and public keys as listed in Necessary files and construct custom vesselinfo file. This should be packaged appropriately and dispensed to the user wishing to install seattle.
    * if vesselinfo is not correctly formatted, it will cause the installation to fail.
 1. User starts installation, default of 10% will be used but user can select a different value by passing a corresponding argument to the installer.
 1. Installation starts, several important checks are performed, benchmark_resources.main() is called
   a. ~~Service logger is initialized~~ A temporary file is open/appended for logging, because service logger cannot be used until the vessels have been created (specifically vessel directory v2). Information about the benchmark and any exceptions will be logged here.
   a. The ''vesselinfo'' file is transformed into a list by ''create_installer_state.read_vessel_info_from_file''. Any errors in the ''vesselinfo'' file will result in the install stopping completely. This is not recoverable and the will be logged.
   a. ''run_benchmark'' is called to get a dictionary containing the maximum available resources.
     i. The scripts Linux_resources.py, Mac_BSD_resources.py, Win_WinCE_resources.py, measuredisk.py, and measure_random.py will be used to generate this dictionary, and resources that are not measured by the scripts will be set as None.
     i. The result from the scripts will be checked, to ensure that values are valid, non-negative, and not None. Bad values are logged and default values will be used.
   a. ''get_donated_from_maxresources'' uses the maximum available resources and the percentage defined by the user to create a dictionary with the total donated resources.
   a. the number of vessels is determined and the required offcut resources are removed from the donatedresources.
     * This is done to here instead of during construction of individual vessel resources to simplify the process.
     * offcut resources are the cost of an individual vessel, even though we do not technically "split" vessels in this code, we must still account for the overhead of creating multiple vessels. 
   a. the donated resources are now chopped down by ''get_tenpercent_of_donated'' to get ten percent of the donated resources (this is ten percent because the vessels are given resources from the donated resources in increments of 10%).
   a. ''create_installer_state.main'' takes the vesselcreationlist, tenpercentdict, and the target directory and initializes the vessel states.
 1. If the installation worked correctly the service logger is initialized and the log file used during the benchmark and creation of vessels is transfered and the file is removed. The installation continues as normal in seattleinstaller.py
