= Graphs of Seattle's Nodes =

This page links to graphs showing various properties of Seattle nodes along with short explanations of the graphs.

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----

[[BR]]
== Node Monitoring Graphs ==
----

These graphs were compiled from data collected between February 24, 2011 and April 6, 2011. The data was collected using the [wiki:Libraries/ExperimentLibrary Experiment Library] to monitor the nodes advertising under the SeattleGENI node announcement public key. The monitoring script determined whether nodes were actually contactable by attempting to browse the node whenever is started or stopped advertising.

 * [wiki:CollectedNodeData/NodesOnline Number of Nodes Online Over Time]
 * [wiki:CollectedNodeData/CumulativeTimeOnline Cumulative Proportion of Time Online]
 * [wiki:CollectedNodeData/ContactableVsAdvertising Scatter Plot of Proportions of Time Contactable and Advertising]
 * [wiki:CollectedNodeData/MobileNodes Nodes Which Changed IP Address]
 * [wiki:CollectedNodeData/CumulativeUptime Cumulative Time Contactable of Unstable Nodes]
 * [wiki:CollectedNodeData/UnstableNodes Advertising and Contactability Patterns of Unstable Nodes]

[[BR]]
== Other Graphs and Data ==
----

If you have wiki access, feel free to add to this section any interesting graphs or other data you have.  To add your graph to the wiki, create a subpage of this page (i.e. something along the lines of !CollectedNodeData/YourGraphName). The page should have a heading, the graph, a several sentence description explaining the graph, and a line saying who collected the data and when it was collected. For examples, see any of the graphs in the above section. Then, add a bullet point and a link with a descriptive title to this section.

 * [wiki:CollectedNodeData/DelaySpace Exploring the Internet Delay Space with Seattle (Includes an advanced allpairs-ping implementation)]