= Deploying the Custom Installer Builder =
This page outlines how to deploy the [CustomInstallerBuilder Custom Installer Builder] using common Apache configurations. See also our instructions on [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderInstallation installing], [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderConfiguration configuring], [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderCustomizationAndBuild customizing], and [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderTesting testing] your Custom Installer Builder site.

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----

== Configuring Apache + mod_wsgi ==
As noted in the [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderInstallation installation instructions], we will use Apache as the front-end web server to our Custom Installer Builder.

Insert the following text into the appropriate area of your Apache configuration file. For simple deployments, the text may be added to the end of the `httpd.conf` file. The configuration will also work within a `VirtualHost` directive, for example. (Check out [wiki:UnderstandingSeattle/SeattleInfrastructureArchitecture#DeploymentPaths this overview of deployment paths] for alternative configs.)


As always, remember to disable debugging once you have successfully deployed the Custom Installer Builder.

{{{
# Let the custominstallerbuilder Django app run in a separate process
WSGIDaemonProcess cibdjango user=cib processes=5 threads=10

# Allow access to JavaScript/CSS/images not served by Django
Alias /static/ /home/cib/custominstallerbuilder/html/static/
<Directory /home/cib/custominstallerbuilder/html/static>
    Require all granted
</Directory>

# Point the root URL of this server to the appropriate Django app
WSGIScriptAlias / /home/cib/custominstallerbuilder/wsgi/wsgi.py process-group=cibdjango

# Allow access to the WSGI wrapper script
<Directory /home/cib/custominstallerbuilder/wsgi>
    <Files wsgi.py>
        Require all granted
    </Files>
</Directory>

}}}


== Other configurations ==
The Custom Installer Builder is a normal Django project. General instructions for [http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/deployment/ Deploying Django] can be found on the Django project website. Make sure that the path to the Repy runtime is within your Python path, regardless of your deployment method.


= Updating the base installers =
New base installers should be placed into the `~/custominstallerbuilder/html/static/installers/base` directory. To force pre-built installers to be rebuilt upon next request, execute this command:

{{{
#!sh
$ python /path/to/custominstallerbuilder/manage.py cleaninstallers
}}}

= Done! =

This concludes the setup and configuration of your Custom Installer Builder instance. Enjoy!

------

== Testing Your Custom Installer Builder: Integration Tests ==
The `custominstallerbuilder/tests` directory contains a few integration tests for various aspects of the Custom Installer Builder. These include a stress test, and tests with valid and invalid build specifications. Follow the instructions in the test case scripts to set up and configure a test environment.
