= Configure Your Install =
Now that you have [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderInstallation installed the Custom Installer Builder dependencies and code], let's configure your instance!

-----
[[TOC(inline)]]
-----


== Create and configure local settings ==
Back in the `custominstallerbuilder` directory, copy the `local_template` folder to `local` (this is where Django will expect the configuration files to live).

{{{
#!sh
$ cd ~/custominstallerbuilder   # Go into the repo we checked out during setup
$ cp -R local_template local
}}}

Edit "local/settings.py" to match your local configuration. This is what is contained in the original file (with omissions):

{{{
#!python
SECRET_KEY = '***** This should be changed to a random string *****'
...
SERVE_STATIC = False
...
BASE_URL = 'http://domain.com/'
...
PROJECT_URL = BASE_URL + 'custominstallerbuilder/'
}}}


Change it to reflect your setup:
{{{
#!python
SECRET_KEY = "Don't dare to think using this as your random string either"
...
SERVE_STATIC = True
...	
BASE_URL = 'http://YOUR-URL:PORT/'
...
PROJECT_URL = BASE_URL
}}}

Specifically,
 * `SECRET_KEY` should be a random string of your own choosing. Do not share it with others!
 * If you are testing locally, use `http://127.0.0.1:PORT/` for the `BASE_URL`. You may use your public facing IP if you want it to be accessible via the internet.
 * `PORT` must be an open port number greater than 1024. For smaller port numbers, administrative privileges (`sudo`) are required. 

Save the file, and you are done with configuring Django for your Custom Installer Builder. Good job!



== Adapt the build scripts ==
Go to the `custominstallerbuilder/DEPENDENCIES/dist` directory. Edit `rebuild_base_installers_for_seattlegeni.sh` to match your local configuration.

Adapt the file names (including full paths) to your softwareupdater's public and private keys:
{{{
#!sh
PUBLIC_KEY_FILE=/path/to/publickey
PRIVATE_KEY_FILE=/path/to/privatekey
}}}

{{{
#!comment 
           Use softwareupdater/generate_keys.py instead?????
}}}

You can generate a keypair in the correct format from [https://seattleclearinghouse.poly.edu/html/profile]( https://seattleclearinghouse.poly.edu/html/profile) using your (or creating a new) user account, or alternatively use the program `seash.py` from the `repy_runtime` directory previously generated for this:
{{{
#!sh
cd ~/custominstallerbuilder/repy_runtime
python seash.py   # This starts an interactive program!
Enabled modules:

 !>
}}}

To generate a keypair, type `genkeys`, followed by the desired key name and key length. 4096 is the minimum recommendable length at the time of writing. Assuming you call the key `softwareupdater`, this generates two files, `softwareupdater.publickey` and `softwareupdater.privatekey` in the `repy_runtime` directory:

{{{
#!sh
 !> genkeys softwareupdater 4096
Created identity 'softwareupdater'
 !> exit
$
}}}

Now move the key files to a location of your choosing. Back in `rebuild_base_installers_for_seattlegeni.sh`, remember to update the path-to and name of keyfiles.

Furthermore, the softwareupdater URL must be given:
{{{
#!sh
SOFTWARE_UPDATE_URL=http://blackbox.poly.edu/updatesite/
}}}

Also, change
{{{
#!sh
REPO_PARENT_DIR=/home/cib/custominstallerbuilder/scripts/
}}}

to the location of your `scripts` folder.

You can also change 
{{{
#!sh
BASE_INSTALLER_DIRECTORY=/var/www/dist
BASE_INSTALLER_ARCHIVE_DIR=/var/www/dist/old_base_installers
}}}

to where you would like the base installers located. Just '''make sure that the paths exist'''.

Also change the user name to your Custom Installer Builder user:
{{{
#!sh
USER=cib
}}}

== Everything set up and configured! ==

Continue now to [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderCustomizationAndBuild making the last changes and building installers...]