= Educator Portal =

This page contains information for educators wishing to use Seattle in the classroom.   The below assignments are geared toward an undergraduate class (so graduate classes will likely want to have longer / more complex assignments). If you have any questions, please contact justinc -AT- cs -DOT- washington -DOT- edu 

 * The [TakeHomeAssignment Take-Home Assignment] introduces [SeattleShell seash (Seattle Shell)] and teaches about connectivity on the Internet.   This is a great starting point to understand how Seattle can help you in a classroom setting.   It's also a nice demo for classes that don't have programming assignments, but want to illustrate practical networking concepts.

 * The [StopAndWaitAssignment Stop and Wait Assignment] has students implement a reliable messaging protocol on top of UDP.   This is a good first assignment in that it's trivial to code, but gets students familiar with Seattle and allows them to measure practical Internet properties.   For comparison, [http://www.cs.washington.edu/education/courses/461/06wi/HW/HW2/index.html Part 1] is a C version of the assignment.

 * The [LinkStateAssignment Link State Routing Assignment] has students implement a link state routing protocol over the Internet.   ...


 * The [WebServerAssignment Web Server Assignment] (based on [http://www.cs.washington.edu/education/courses/461/08au/projects/proj2.html this assignment]) and [ChatServerAssignment Chat Server Assignment] focus on building applications that use the network.   Students build network applications that run on top of Seattle and understand applications like HTTP and layering of network services.

