= Installing Python on Windows =
This guide will help Windows users install Python on their system. Users of other operating system likely have Python built-in.

== Check if Python is already installed ==
To check if Python is already installed, go the the Start menu, then examine the list of "All Programs".

If Python 2.5 or Python 2.6 exists there, then skip to the section below entitled "Set your PATH environment variable".

If you find a different version of Python there, or do not see Python at all, then proceed to "Download and Install Python 2.6" below.


== Download and Install Python 2.6 ==
 * Step 1: Go to the [http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.6.4/ official Python website] to download the appropriate Windows installer for your computer. For most users, this will be the [http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.6.4/python-2.6.4.msi Windows x86 MSI Installer]. Users with 64-bit systems may download a [http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.6.4/python-2.6.4.amd64.msi 64-bit installer].
 * Step 2: Install Python 2.6 by double clicking the installer you just downloaded and following the on-screen setup.


== Set your PATH environment variable ==
To tell your computer where to find Python, you change your PATH environment variable:

 * Step 1: From the Control Panel, open the System settings panel. Within System settings, select the "Advanced" tab, then click on the "Environment Variables" button.
 * Step 2: Under the section titled "System variables", find the line with "PATH" in the "Variable" column and click "Edit".
   * If you are unable to edit the system-wide "PATH", find the section titled "user variables" and click "New". Name the new variable "PATH" (in all capital letters) and keep this window open.
 * Step 3: Under "Variable value", add a semicolon to the end of the entry there, then add the full path to the Python folder you installed. For most installations, the folder should be named {{{ C:\Python26\ }}}
 * Step 4: Click "OK".

== You're done! ==
You should now be able to run Python programs on you computer, including Seattle.
