= Lind: Secure Lightweight Cloud Computing =

Lind is an attempt to provide a new secure lightweight cloud computing environment in the form of a new library operating system.  The goal of the project is to create a lightweight cloud runtime environment for x86, using [http://code.google.com/p/nativeclient/ Native Client (NaCl)] and [wiki:RepyApi Repy].  The project will implement a useful subset of the POSIX API within !NaCl to run through Repy.  This wiki page details the motivation and design of Lind, and explains how you can start using it yourself.

[[TOC(inline)]]


[[BR]]
== Motivation ==
----
The motivation of this !NaCl Repy hybrid is to expand !NaCl’s access to the system to commonly used functionality like sockets and simple file I/O, while still providing the necessary spatial and  performance [https://seattle.cs.washington.edu/html/netadmins.html isolation]. as well as portability to make running untrusted applications anywhere possible.  We think when coupled !NaCl’s safe execution, this makes a safe and powerful environment for some class applications which have complex compute requirements, but simple system access needs. 

[[BR]]
== Design ==
----
=== Goals ===
 * Minimal additions to the !NaCl TCB.
 * Use Seattle secured Python where possible

=== Description ===

Lind connects !NaCl and !RePy using !NaCl's IMC system.  IMC provides socket and message passing like interfaces between an a !NaCl program and an external process.  

[[BR]]
== How programs are built and run ==
----
Lind programs are standard C programs (or anything else gcc compiles to x86); however, they must be compiled with the Native Client GCC implementation, and linked with a special version of glibc built for Lind.  The native client gcc is a slightly modified gcc which produced x86 code which can be verified.  The Lind glibc redirects system calls normally sent to the OS back into the Lind python runtime. Besides that, building application for Lind is no different than building standard programs with GCC.

[[BR]]
== Getting Lind ==
----
We are working on the first version of Lind now.  If you would like to be an early beta tester please email Chris.
