= Programmer Portal =

This page features information and references regarding how to use write programs on Seattle. Seattle nodes run code written in a special language called Repy. Repy is a subset of the [http://www.python.org/ Python language] (version 2.5 / version 2.6) invented specifically for Seattle.  

[[TOC(inline)]]

== Before You Begin ==
Make sure you have all the necessary tools installed:

 * '''Step 1''': Python2.5 or Python2.6 must be installed in order to use Repy.  [http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.6.4/ Download Python2.6] '''WINDOWS USERS:''' For instructions on how to check if you already have the correct version of Python installed, and for directions on how to install Python2.6, [wiki:InstallPythonOnWindows click here]

 * '''Step 2''': You will have to download and install repy before starting the tutorials below: '''[https://seattleclearinghouse.poly.edu/download/flibble/ Download repy!]'''

== Tutorials ==
You can start with several different tutorials depending on your background.

 * [wiki:PythonTutorial All of the Python You Need to Understand Repy (and None You Don't)]. Start here if you're new to Python and Repy!

 * [wiki:PythonVsRepy All of the Python You Need to Forget to Use Repy]. Use this tutorial if you already know Python.

After doing one of the above tutorials, do the following tutorial to learn how to use Repy specific features and functionality:

 * [wiki:RepyTutorial Repy Tutorial]. Try this tutorial to learn more about Repy features and the language API.

If you would prefer to use Repy V2, it is worthwhile to read through the following tutorials:

 * [wiki:RepyV2CheckoutAndUnitTests Checking out Repy V2 and Running the included unit tests]

 * [wiki:RepyV2SecurityLayers How to use Security Layers with Repy V2]

== Other Resources ==
 * An easy way to start learning Seattle is to watch our [wiki:UnderstandingSeattle/DemoVideo five-minute demo].

 * Use the [wiki:RepyApi Repy Library Reference] as a quick guide to Repy's API once you are comfortable with the language.

 * Programmers writing code for Repy V2 may want to read about the [wiki:RepyV1vsRepyV2 differences between Repy V1 and Repy V2].

 * There is a growing list of library code you can download and use with Repy (see [http://seattle.poly.edu/svn/seattle/trunk/seattlelib/ seattlelib] in the Seattle repository for examples). Read more about RepyHelper for the details of how to include Repy code in Python programs.

 * Documentation about the Seattle Standard Library can be seen at [wiki:SeattleLib]
{{{
#!comment
Much of this code uses a Repy Pre-Processor (repypp).  To "include" a repy file in your source file '''source.repy''', at the top of your code include {{{include filename.repy}}}.   Then run {{{python repypp.py source.repy out.repy}}}.   The '''filename.repy''' file does not need to be pre-processed. The file '''out.repy''' will contain the code for '''filename.repy''' included inside the code for '''source.repy''' at the appropriate place.
}}}

== Editing Repy files ==
=== Vim ===
João Moreno has also provided a [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2546 VIM syntax file] for Repy that will syntax color Repy programs.

You can also choose to automatically color Repy code with python-mode in emacs.  In your .emacs file, add the following line:

{{{
(add-to-list 'auto-mode-alist '("\\.repy$" . python-mode))
}}}

=== gedit ===
In order to have proper syntax highlighting for Repy, `repy.lang` needs to be moved into the folder that stores the defined languages. It is a slightly modified version of the python language spec.

 * For system-wide changes, move it to: `/usr/share/gtksourceview-3.0/language-specs/repy.lang`
 * For a single user, move it to: `~/.local/share/gtksourceview-3.0/language-specs/repy.lang`

You can download `repy.lang` [raw-attachment:repy.lang here]