= Checking out Repy V2 and Running the included unit tests =
This guide is meant to help new developers check out Repy V2 on their machine, and run the included unit tests.

[[TOC(inline)]]

== Prerequisites ==
As with all code related to Repy, you first need to have python v2.5 or 2.6 installed.

Before doing this tutorial, you should have set up subversion, as outlined [wiki:Local/RepoAccess#SettingupSubversion here].

== Checkout the repository ==
To checkout Repy V2 from the repository with your ssh credentials, run the following, replacing USER with your username:
{{{
svn co svn+ssh://USER@seattle.cs.washington.edu/seattle/branches/repy_v2
}}}

If you do not have an ssh account, you can check the code out anonymously:
{{{
svn co https://seattle.cs.washington.edu/svn/seattle/branches/repy_v2
}}} 

This will create a folder `repy_v2` with the code from the repository.

== Running the unit tests ==
=== Preparing the tests ===
Before running the unit tests, you first need to prepare them.

To do that, first change into the repy_v2 directory.

'''WARNING''': The `preparetest.py` script first erases all the files in the target directory. Make sure to use an empty directory.

We will use `prepared_tests` as our target directory for the prepared unit tests.
{{{
python preparetest.py -t prepared_tests/
}}}

=== Running the tests ===
To run the tests, change to `preparetests.py`'s target directory. For us, that was `prepared_tests`

Run the tests by invoking `utf.py` as follows:
{{{
python utf.py -m repyv2api
}}}

This will run all unit tests that are part of the module `repyv2api`, which includes all unit tests for repyv2.
== Possible issues ==

=== utf.py does not exist ===
When running
{{{
python utf.py -m repyv2api
}}}
You may get an error `python: can't open file 'utf.py': [Errno 2] No such file or directory`

This is because `preparetest.py` was ran without the `-t` switch.

Rerunning `preparetest.py` with `-t` will copy all of the needed files.