== Advice About Research ==

''This is research advice given by Geremy Condra.   I've placed it here to help others benefit from his experiences.''


Just submitted my first conference paper- yay!- and found out a lot of things
along the way. Justin asked me to write down a few of the most important,
and so without further ado, here they are:

1. Gathering data is hard- it takes more time than you think it will, and more
will go wrong than you plan for. This felt very strange to me, because the
things I was doing weren't individually hard, and as a result I felt the urge
to automate them, leading me to conclude that...

2. Premature automation is the root of all evil- Einstein said "It wouldn't be
called 'research' if we knew what we were doing". Trying to automate a process
you don't fully understand- or which will change as you gain a better
understanding- is a fool's errand. Save yourself the hassle, because...

3. Systems are not equations- understanding their behavior is about getting your
hands on real data, not on perfectly understanding their theoretical properties.
By definition you don't understand what impact the tottering pile of hardware
and software underneath you is having on your research, which means that...

4. You have to interrogate your data- At the end of the process you and your
data will be good friends. At the beginning of the process you should treat it
like a murder suspect: you don't know what it was doing, why it was doing it, or
if it's lying to you about all of the above, but you're pretty sure it's bad
anyways. I knew this objectively going in, but in retrospect I didn't
act on that
knowledge as well as I needed to, at least in part because I didn't...

5. Get the questions right first - I didn't have a good feel for the
questions I
was trying to answer walking into the paper, and so trying to get answers for
the right questions became very confusing (and very time consuming) in a big
hurry. In retrospect, it would have saved everybody a lot of time if I
had tried
to more carefully understand what the reviewers wanted to know before I leaped
into gathering data.

So, I hope this helps somebody out there to avoid my mistakes. Good
luck on your future research, everybody!