= Seattle Resources =

[[BR]]
== Hosts dedicated to the project and that we maintain ==
=== '''Production''' : seattlegeni.cs.washington.edu ===

Runs production services that change infrequently. No dev access.

Services:
 * GENI (http)
 * GENI (sql)
 * GENI installer-maker client
 * State transition daemons

Monitoring:
 * http is monitored via the CSE [http://weblogin.cs.washington.edu/www_is_up www_is_up] service. GET request is generated every 20 minutes. Justin and Ivan are emailed in case of downtime.

[[BR]]
=== '''Stable''' : seattle.cs.washington.edu, beraber.cs.washington.edu ===

Hosts the basic dev services, and a few simple production services.

Services:
 * Seattle Trac
 * Seattle SVN
 * Seattle installer-maker server
 * Seattle software updater
 * Beraber (http)
 * GENI test (http)
 * Centralized advertise server

Monitoring:
 * http is monitored via the CSE [http://weblogin.cs.washington.edu/www_is_up www_is_up] service. GET request is generated every 20 minutes. Justin and Ivan are emailed in case of downtime.

[[BR]]
=== '''Unstable''' : blackbox.cs.washington.edu ===

Runs no production services. Used for monitoring, node deployment, and other distributed tasks.

Services:
 * Autograder
 * Black box testing
 * Deployment scripts

[[BR]]
=== User machines ===

Use these machines to work on Seattle projects, test compatibility of your code across operating systems, etc.

 * testbed-opensuse.cs.washington.edu
 * testbed-mac.cs.washington.edu

[[BR]]
== Seattle Auto-notification Gmail Account ==

We use a normal Gmail account seattle DOT devel -AT- gmail to send automatically generated emails regarding

|| '''Service'''                                  || '''Subject Line Format'''                                      ||
|| Unit test failures in the post-commit SVN hook || svn post-commit unit test hoook failed on rvn [RVN #]          ||
|| Integration test failures from blackbox.cs     || seattle test failed @ blackbox.cs.washington.edu : [TEST_PATH] ||
|| Trac ticket notifications                      || [Seattle] #[TICKET #]: [TICKET TITLE]                          ||

[[BR]]
== Mailing Lists ==

We use the UW CSE mailing lists to coordinate developers, and to receive email from our users. These lists are configured to receive email from anyone, but require admin confirmation to subscribe, and only subscribers can view the list archives.

 * [https://mailman.cs.washington.edu/mailman/listinfo/seattle-devel Developers] mailing list ([https://mailman.cs.washington.edu/mailman/admin/seattle-devel admin] interface)
 * [https://mailman.cs.washington.edu/mailman/listinfo/seattle-users Users] mailing list ([https://mailman.cs.washington.edu/mailman/admin/seattle-users admin] interface)

[[BR]]
== UW CSE Seattle account ==

We run Seattle on some of the machines in UW CSE labs. Seattle runs under the '''justinc''' username.

[[BR]]
== Emulab Accounts ==

We use [http://www.emulab.net Emulab] for our autograder infrastructure. Our Emulab GID (group ID) is '''Seattle'''.


[[BR]]
== !PlanetLab Accounts ==

We run Seattle on [http://planet-lab.org/ PlanetLab]. Our !PlanetLab slice is '''uw_seattle'''.
