'''Justin'''

  * We need to make a documentation push.
    * Some progress on wiki, need to keep making progress.
  * Ticket overview:
    * Closed 13 tickets (some were old tickets to be cleaned up).
    * Emphasis: people should be sure to be creating tickets for things
      their working on, changes their making, problems their solving, etc.
  * We're hosting the SeaPIG meeting this week.
  * We're going to have the final Repy 2.0 API meeting.
    * Scheduled for Tuesday (tomorrow) at 1pm.
    * After the meeting, people should be able to start implementing.
    * Work will be done in an svn branch.

'''Monzur'''

  * Will unplug testbed-freebsd because it's running hot and we can't really
    use it at this point anyways.
  * Looking into the issues that may or may not exist with the central advertise server.

'''Ivan'''

  * Working on presentation/website. Justin will give feedback.
  * Would like to schedule a meeting for shims.
    * Tentatively planning the meeting for Mondays 5-6.

'''jsamuel'''

  * Closed a few old tickets.
  * Worked with/met with Steve related to his work on the tests.

'''Armon'''

  * Code cleanup.
    * New verson of nonportable contains ipc and stop time info.
  * Worked on time module (determine when program started and stopped).
  * Worked on thesis related to this, will put up wiki page soon.

'''Zack'''

  * Working on gui installer for windows (will demo after the meeting).

'''Yoon'''

  * Working on the proxy. Need to make changes to reflect the changes to
    httpretrieve and the webserver.
  * Need to work with Conrad to decide which httpretrieve (?) functions that
    are currently private should become public.

'''Evan'''

  * Added geolocation to seash.
    * Includes a separate command to provide lat/long.
  * Justin requested making sure something is demo-able for him to use
    during presentations. For now, just at least an idea of what it would
    look like, even if it's not done.

'''Derek'''

  * Wrote a wiki page on installing seattle from scratch on an n800.
  * Changed the installer to run a shell script that works to install
    on the n800.
  * It will still be the linux installer. We'll probably want to add
    instructions to the download page (how to install python, etc).

'''Eric'''

  * Working on rebuilding the nat traversal service based on shims.
  * High level status:
    * Would like to be ready to deploy on beta testbed in about a week.
    * While it runs on the beta testbed, will work on writing service manager.

'''Steve'''

  * Softwareupdater tests are working on the new unit testing framework now.
    * There's the issue of the softwareupdater test process that gets left behind.
  * The repy tests and the repy-same-as-python tests are working.
  * Currently working on the -network (ip restrictions tests).
  * There are a few seattlelib tests failing.
    * Will identify if they are broken regardless of the new framework and send
      any info about that to Justin.
  * Have not implemented the pre-test and post-test functionality yet.

'''Conrad'''

  * Made changes to httpretrieve this week.
    * Interface is pretty much in the shape it should be in.
    * There are a few lingering bugs.
  * Should have the remaining bugs done and be able to call it done
    in a few days.

'''Jeff'''

  * Finished working on layout for main website.
    * We're working on content now. Google doc email will go
      out to everyone soon.
  * Started working on monitoring scripts, using experimentlib.