= Shim Exception Hierarchy =

== Description ==
----
This page displays the shim exception hierarchy. It lists all the expected shim exceptions that may be raised and a description of what they are.
[[br]]

== Exception Hierarchy ==
----
Exception hierarchy:
 * !ShimException
  * !InvalidShimContext
  * !ShimArgumentError
  * !ShimNotFoundError
  * !ShimNetworkError
   * ShimTCPError
   * ShimUDPError
   * !ShimAdvertisementError
    * !ShimAdvertisementLookupError
    * !ShimAdvertisementAnnounceError
[[br]]

== Exception Description ==
----
class '''!ShimException''' (Exception):
 
  The base shim exception. All other exceptions
  are derived from here.
  


class '''!InvalidShimContext''' (!ShimException):
  This error means that the global context does
  not match the expected context for a shim.


class '''!ShimArgumentError''' (!ShimException):
  This indicates that an argument was provided
  that does not match the expected argument for
  a function.
  


class '''!ShimNotFoundError''' (!ShimException):
  This error would be raised if a shim name
  is provided that is not found.



class '''!ShimNetworkError''' (!ShimException):
  The base error for any shim exceptions that is raised
  due to network connectivity.


class '''ShimTCPError''' (!ShimNetworkError):
  This indicates that there was a TCP network related
  error that occured.


class '''ShimUDPError''' (!ShimNetworkError):
  This indicates that there was a UDP network related
  error that occured.


class '''!ShimAdvertisementError''' (!ShimNetworkError):
  This error indicates that there was an error
  with the advertisement system while either doing lookup
  or announce.


class '''!ShimAdvertisementLookupError''' (!ShimAdvertisementError):
  This error indicates that a shim error occured
  while doing an advertisement lookup.


class '''!ShimAdvertisementAnnounceError''' (!ShimAdvertisementError):
  This error indicates that a shim error occured
  while doing an advertisement announce.

