= Seattle Take Home Assignment =

The purpose of this assignment is to illustrate several important networking concepts by measuring the connectivity between computers spread around the Internet. For this task we will be using Seattle, and in the first part of this assignment you will familiarize yourself with the Seattle toolkit. Altogether there are 11 steps to this assignment. Let's begin!

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----
[[BR]]
= Using the GENI website and the Seattle shell =
[[BR]]
== Step 1 : Adding resources ==
----

You should have been given a user name and password from the instructor or the class TA. Use these to login to the Seattle [https://seattle.cs.washington.edu/geni GENI website]. 
Once you've logged in, you'll see resources contributed by your instructor. Click on the Used Resources tab and you'll see that you currently aren't using any resources. In the right pane, select LAN and choose 10 computers, and click "Get".  You should see that ten computers have been added for you to use.

[[BR]]
== Step 2 : Running Seattle shell ==
----

Now click on the User Info tab.    Click to download the demo kit.   This includes all of the files you need to do the take home assignment.   Click to download your Private Key and Public Key (save the files to the directory with seash).  This will give you the credentials necessary to run your programs on the ten computers now at your disposal.     

 * On Windows do start, run, cmd and then cd to the folder where you downloaded the toolkit.   

 * On Mac / Linux, open a terminal window and change to the directory where you downloaded the toolkit.   

Then type "python seash.py" (if this fails, you may need to [http://www.python.org download python]).   You will see a prompt like " !> " once the seash shell starts.  The seash shell will allow you to easily run programs across multiple computers at the same time.

[[BR]]
== Step 3 : Browsing your resources ==
----

Now lets add the credentials you just downloaded from the website into seash.  Type the following command at the prompt, '''(replacing username with the user name you used to log into the Seattle GENI website)'''

{{{
#!python
!> loadkeys username
}}}

Then, type

{{{
#!python
!> as username
}}}

This will change the prompt to " username@ !> " to indicate that by default, you are now acting with your credentials.  Next, tell the shell to search for vessels you control by typing browse:

{{{
#!python
username@ !> browse
}}}

This will search for vessels that you control (so that the shell can locate them).  You should see several vessels added (if not, you should wait a few minutes and then try again, as sometimes it takes
time for the vessel information to propagate).  The output from browse command will look something like the following:

{{{
#!python
username@ !> browse            
Added targets: %1(IP:port:vesselname), %2(IP:port:vesselname), %3(IP:port:vesselname), ...
Added group 'browsegood' with X targets      
}}}

This tells you that the seash has discovered (at least some of) the computers you selected and verified that they are ready to run your code.

[[BR]]
== Step 4 : Hello World on a single computer ==
----

In the above print-out response to the browse command, the %1, %2, %3, etc are an easy way to refer to a computer.  For example, we can run a "hello world" program on computer %1 by typing:

{{{
#!python
username@ !> on %1 run helloworld.py
}}}

To see the results of this command on computer %1 we would type:

{{{
#!python
username@ !> on %1 show log
}}}

This shows you the output from the %1 computer, which should say "Hello World". If you're going to deal with a specific computer over and over, then constantly typing "on computername" before every command can be very annoying.   You can instead set the default target by simply typing

{{{
#!python
username@ !> on %1
}}}

and hitting enter.  This will change your prompt to be:

{{{
#!python
username@%1 !>
}}}

This indicates that you're acting as your username and you're acting on %1 (unless otherwise specified).  Try typing

{{{
#!python
username@%1 !> run helloworld.py
}}}

and then type

{{{
#!python
username@%1 !> show log
}}}

You'll see two "Hello World" lines now because you've run the program twice.  

[[BR]]
== Step 5 : Hello World on many computers ==
----

Now we'd like to run commands on more than one computer at a time.  To do this, we'll use the result of our previous browse command as a group.  If you recall the output from the command said "Added group 'browsegood' with X targets".  This means that the nodes it found the last time you browsed are now in a group called browsegood.   Type

{{{
#!python
username@%1 !> on browsegood
}}}

and you'll see the prompt:

{{{
#!python
username@browsegood !>
}}}

Now type two commands:

{{{
#!python
username@browsegood !> run helloworld.py
username@browsegood !> show log
}}}

You'll see that the command was run on a bunch of different computers.  Let's add the computers in browsegood to a group with a more convenient name by typing

{{{
#!python
username@browsegood !> add browsegood to LAN
}}}

and then type

{{{
#!python
username@browsegood !> on LAN
}}}

to use the LAN group.

[[BR]]
== Step 6 : Stopping programs ==
----

We'll cover one last function of the shell before we start measuring network connectivity: stopping a running program. Some programs don't exit immediately like the hello world program.   At your " username@LAN !> " prompt type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> run infloop.py
}}}

This deploys a program that waits in an infinite loop.   If you now try to do "run helloworld.py" you'll see that the shell doesn't run the program since the infinite loop program is already running.  To stop the program type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> stop
}}}

You'll see a message noting that the program has stopped on your nodes.   To check the status of the program you deployed you can type "list" and it will show you if the program is running (Started), you stopped while it was running (Stopped), or stopped on its own (Terminated).  


= Measuring Connectivity =
== Step 7 : Sending UDP pings manually ==
----

Now we're ready to measure the connectivity between computers!   The first thing we need to do is check which UDP port we should use.   For convenience, Seattle GENI assigns the same UDP port to all of a user's vessels.   To figure out which port you should use, log into the Seattle GENI website and on the User Info page, look to see what port number it indicates.   You should write this down as you'll need this value repeatedly.

We'll measure connectivity by sending UDP pings from a target computer to a destination.  At the " username@LAN !> " prompt type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> list
}}}

This will allow you to see the IP of %2.  Now type (replacing GENIport with your port number)

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> on %2 run udppingserver.py GENIport
}}}


You can ping from %1 to %2 by typing the line listed below.   Replace IP_of_%2 with the IP address of computer %2 as shown by your previous list command.   It will be something like 1.2.3.4.   Also replace GENIport with your port number.

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> on %1 run udpping.py IP_of_%2 GENIport
}}}


Then if you type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> on %1 show log
}}}

You will see that %1 was able to send UDP ping packets to %2. You can also type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> on %2 show log
}}}


to see that %2 received the ping packets. Okay, now stop the udppingserver on computer %2 by typing

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> on %2 stop
}}}

[[BR]]
== Step 8 : Sending pings between a group of computers ==
----

Instead of manually pinging between each of the computers in the LAN group (if your prompt isn't " username@LAN !> " type: "on LAN" to reset it), you can run a program that does an UDP ping between all of the computers in a group.  First we need to generate a list of all nodes. Type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> list
}}}

and then write the IP addresses into a file called "neighboriplist.txt" on your computer.   The IP addresses should be written one line at a time like this:
{{{
1.2.3.4
100.200.100.1
123.45.67.89
}}}

Save the file to the directory where seash.py is running.   Now type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> upload neighboriplist.txt
}}}

This adds the file with nodes to ping to the all the computers in the LAN group. Now type (substituting your port for GENIport)

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> run allpairsping.py GENIport
}}}

You can see the result of all of the nodes pinging each other by opening your web browser and pointing it at one of the computers in your neighboriplist:GENIport.   For example, if 1.2.3.4 is a computer in your list, and your port is 54321 then open your browser and in the address bar type "http://1.2.3.4:54321".   If the node you chose doesn't respond, try another node.

Each node reports a matrix showing its connectivity. You will see that every node is able to ping every other node (i.e. the matrix is full of latencies).   If a row is completely missing, you'll notice the corresponding column is likely empty as well.   This indicates that the node you are looking at is mostly likely down.   

If you refresh the page occasionally, you'll see that the latencies change as the nodes periodically update.

[[BR]]
== Step 9 : Pinging behavior in the wide-area ==
----

Now we'll run the same experiment as Step 6, but on computers distributed around the world. Log back into the Seattle GENI website. You will see the nodes that you're using are listed under the Used Resources tab. Click on "remove all nodes".  Now that you've given back your resources, you can add other resources. Click on the "add resources" button, under the Quick Start tab, click on WAN (instead of LAN), choose 10 computers, and click "Go!".   Now you'll see that ten computers around the world have been added for you to use.

Back in the shell, type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> browse
}}}


You will see that the WAN nodes are now detected.  For convenience, let's add the nodes to a group called WAN by typing

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> add browsegood to WAN
}}}

Now type

{{{
#!python
username@LAN !> on WAN
}}}

and the prompt should now say "username@WAN !>".  Now let's examine the all pairs connectivity again. First type

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> list
}}}

and as before write the IP addresses you see to a local file called 'neighboriplist.txt'. Then type

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> upload neighboriplist.txt
}}}

Then type

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> run allpairsping.py
}}}

Finally, run

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> show log
}}}

What do you observe? Is the connectivity graph complete and do all of the nodes agree on which nodes are alive?  As before, a column wich is empty and has a corresponding empty row indicates a down node.   Do you see any nodes that cannot connect to each other but can contact other nodes?   (If you don't see this effect, try to remove your nodes on the Seattle GENI website and choose different WAN nodes, repeating the commands in this step).

[[BR]]
== Step 10 : Packet forwarding ==
----

Now that you have a connectivity matrix where there are two nodes that can't communicate, notice that other computers can communicate with these nodes, but they can't contact each other directly. This is an effect called "non-transitive connectivity".   Non-transitive connectivity usually happens because of configuration errors or convergence failures in the BGP protocol.   

Write down the IP addresses of the two computers that cannot directly communicate and also write down the IP of an intermediate node that can communicate with both nodes.   To get packets to flow from two nodes that can't communicate, we can have a node in the middle forward packets.   Find the %number of the intermediate node who can talk to both nodes.   Then type (replacing node1IP, node2IP, and GENIport)

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> on %number run udpforward.py node1IP node2IP GENIport
}}}

Now start the udppingserver on node1 by doing (replacing node1 with the node number for node1 and GENIport)

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> on %node1 run udppingserver.py GENIport
}}}


To send a ping packet, run: (replacing node2 with the node number for node2, intermediateIP with the IP address of the computer that can talk to both nodes, and GENIport)

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> on %node2 run ping.py intermediateIP GENIport
}}}

You can look at the log on node1 and node2 to see that the packets were delivered (using the "show log" command). 

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> on %node2 show log
}}}

However, on node2 you'll notice that the ping packets came from the intermediate IP address instead of node1.   You'll also see that node1 got the response from the intermediate node (instead of directly from node2).

{{{
#!python
username@WAN !> on %node1 show log
}}}


[[BR]]
== Step 11 : Observed behavior from your home computer ==
----

The next part of the assignment is best performed from your home computer.  It will try to detect the presence of a network address translator (NAT); a feature that many wireless modems and home routers have.   Install Seattle on your home computer by logging into your Seattle GENI account.   In the top area where it shows contributed nodes, click "download personal installer".   Run the installer on your local system.   Now click on your user name at the bottom and select "download keys".    Run the shell from a terminal by typing "python seash.py".  Load your keys for your identity (which is your username at the GENI website) by typing

{{{
#!python
!> loadkeys identity
}}}

Then type

{{{
#!python
!> as identity
}}}

and you'll see the prompt changes to "username@ !>". Check on the Seattle GENI website to see if you still have nodes to use. If not, click on the add resources button, under the Quick Start tab, click on WAN, choose 1 computers, and click "Go!".  

Now under your shell at the " username@ !>" prompt, type

{{{
#!python
username@ !> browse
}}}

You should see your local node and the WAN node you just added. Write down the IP address of your computer and the IP address of the WAN node.   Start the pingserver on the WAN node (by running "on %WANnode run pingserver.py").   Ping the WAN node from your local computer (by running "on %localcomputer ping WANIP").   Now look at the logs, in particular the log of the WAN computer.   Does it have your computer's IP address listed as the source address?  

Now try to ping in the opposite direction.  First, stop the pingserver on the WAN node (by running "on %WANnode stop").   Then start the ping server on the local computer (by running "on %localnode run pingserver.py").   Next ping the local node from the WAN node (by running "on %WANnode ping localIP").   Then check the logs (by running "on %WANnode show log", and "on %localnode show log").   Did it work?

If you have a NAT device on your home network your computer can initiate connections out, but the packets will be translated so they have a different IP address than the local IP.   This also typically means that nodes on the outside of the NAT cannot initiate connections to inside nodes (which is why the WAN node could not ping your computer).
