'''Justin'''

  * Tickets
    * 14 tickets closed
      * Conrad closed the most (after Justin)
    * 14 tickets opened

  * Went to NWDCSD (northwest distributed computer science department) meeting with Monzur this last weekend.
    * Gave a workshop and tutorial session on Seattle.

  * Working on our next paper.

'''Eric'''

  * NAT traversal has been launched.
  * Working on service composition aspects of our next paper. (Will include network semantics.)

'''Conrad'''

  * Working on bugs that have been around a long time, also some repy and software updater bugs.

'''Kon'''

  * Fixed deployment problem on planetlab nodes that came up last week (problem had brought down planetlab nodes).  
  * There are still some nodes (30) that aren't properly uninstalled/reinstalled.
  * 489 fully functioning planetlab nodes currently.
  * 82 other nodes, 4-6 displaying NAT ips.

'''Jason'''

  * Worked on html views for new seattlegeni. All pages are working except for myvessels and getdonations.
  * Will write tests after things are appear to be working. 

'''Anthony'''

  * Working on updating installer to properly get 10%.
  * Appears to be working, just doing more testing.
  * Will work with Zach on figuring out how to pass info to the installer if the user wants to use something other than the default 10%.
  * Some events are in a grey area (e.g. sockets, events). E.g. you can't really tell how many events are 10%. We'll set a decent default that may be more than 10%, but the nodemanager is built to decrease the events limit if it detects something crashing because of it.

'''Vjeko'''

  * Wiki completed.
  * utf.py completed.
  * has been working on improving commenting and fixing bugs.
  * need to improve test cases (will continue working on that).  
  * will change the name to "seattle testing framework (stf)" as they aren't all unit tests.

'''jsamuel'''

  * The plan is to launch the new seattlegeni to a new, smaller test network (with different node state keys, different nodes, different database) on Friday.

'''Monzur'''

  * Working on the node state transition scripts, making progress and getting into working with the databases.
  * Went to the conference with Justin.

'''Zach'''

  * Have been overhauling the installer code for doing install/startup on Windows machines.
  * The old code had some stuff that was always failing but it was always falling back to installing to the "startup" folder which is where the rest of the code was looking for it.