'''Justin'''

  * Working on a talk for a non-technical audience.
  
'''Cosmin'''

  * Working on design section of honors thesis.

'''Anthony'''

  * The bug he identified in pycrypto has been fixed upstream now (in pycrypto
    itself), using a similar fix to the one we use.
  
'''jsamuel'''

  * (Didn't take notes on what he himself did, it seems.)

'''Conrad'''

  * Closed a few tickets.
  * Worked on hunting down opendht problem.
  * Working on getting the installers to have the started processes detach from
    the shell.

'''Yafete'''

  * Working on http callback function. Should finish client/server stuff this week.
  * Plan to start working on ViewPoints soon.

'''Jenn'''
  
  * Started elaborating on the BACKS API, should have a rough draft that more clearly
    defines the API functions soon. (The documentation of the API, not code, that is.)

'''Monzur'''

  * Looked at hardware problem with testbed-mac, lab is currently looking at it.
  * Installed trac on blackbox to do a test run on upgrade of main trac. Haven't
    gotten it fully working there yet.

'''Eric'''

  * Added additional debugging info to nat forwarders.
  * NAT forwarders currently can't run on 0.1n due to a fixed in svn namespace bug.
    We're going to push a beta 0.1o release to the beta testbed so the nat forwarders
    can run there.