'''Justin'''

  * Things we need to focus on before going public:
    * repy maturity (armon is working on this)
    * exception heirarchy
    * interpose on print
    * expose what resources are used (possibly extended down to namespaces)
    * need a way to know what is happening with an active tcp or udp connection
      * this means less of a callback model, but we can build the callback
        model on top of this.
      * one reason for this is because there's no good way to handle mobility
    * need to improve monitoring infrastructure
    * need presentable, nice demos (especially for pycon)
    * need CNC in production
    * mobility is very important
    * installers need work, they've come far but they need to be great
    * documentation needs work
    * need to ensure we work cross-platform (on whatever platforms we say we support)
    * need a stop button on seattlegeni to shut down misbehaving users/etc.
    * need to work on advertisement to make it more robust
    * additional suggestions people had people during the meeting:
      * reorganize code so everything isn't dumped in one directory

'''Cosmin'''

  * Working on CNC. Narrowing down some bugs.

'''Armon'''

  * virtual namespace progress
    * added safe dictionary to use with import system
    * lots of other related parts

'''jsamuel'''

  * making armon's life hard by being picky about code and APIs.
  * testbed-mac is running now
  * ordered some new hardware for virtualization (needed for testing)
  * started added xmlrpc api call in seattlegeni to enable requesting encrypted
    version of api-key.

'''Zack'''

  * uninstaller is done
  * mostly done with changes to the crontab
    * this will make it possible to get rid of the seattle stopper lock
  * still working on the windows security issues

'''Conrad'''

  * Closed a couple of bugs in the nodemanager, softwareupdater, opendht
  * Fixed some flaky tests

'''Monzur'''

  * Installed trac on blackbox and upgraded. Waiting for feedback on the
    upgraded version.
  * Installed a few nodes on the beta testbed.
    * Justin S. needs to be getting planetlab access to this slice.

'''Jenn'''
  
  * Working on resource management and working on testing of a basic model.