= Testing the Custom Installer Builder =
This page outlines how to deploy the [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilder Custom Installer Builder] using Django's built-in test server on one of the Seattle project systems. It should be easy to apply a similar procedure to test the Custom Installer Builder on your own system. For production-level deployment on a real web server, reference [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderDeployment these instructions] instead.

== Install Dependencies ==
----

Custom Installer requires at least the following software to be installed:
 
 * [http://www.python.org/ Python] -- the language Custom Installer is written in
 * [http://www.apache.org/ Apache] -- the web server
 * [http://www.modpython.org/ mod_python] -- necessary for interfacing with Django code
 * [http://www.djangoproject.com/ Django] -- necessary to run Django code
 * '''zip''' -- necessary for packaging window installers and keys

{{{
#!sh
$ apt-get install apache2 libapache2-mod-python
$ apt-get install ntp
$ apt-get install zip
}}}

The version of Django required is 1.3.5, which is available at https://www.djangoproject.com/download/ or through a package manager.
{{{
#!sh
$ pip install django==1.3.5
}}}
At this time we do not support Django version 1.4 or higher.

 * '''Step 1:''' Check out the Custom Installer Builder from the SVN repository.

{{{
$ svn co https://seattle.poly.edu/svn/seattle/trunk/custominstallerbuilder/
}}}

 * '''Step 2:''' From within the "custominstallerbuilder" directory, copy the "local_template" folder to "local".

{{{
$ cd custominstallerbuilder
$ cp -R local_template local
}}}

 * '''Step 3:''' From within the "custominstallerbuilder" directory, download the base installers:

{{{
$ cd html/static/installers/base
$ wget http://seattlegeni.cs.washington.edu/dist/seattle_linux.tgz
$ wget http://seattlegeni.cs.washington.edu/dist/seattle_mac.tgz
$ wget http://seattlegeni.cs.washington.edu/dist/seattle_win.zip
}}}

 * '''Step 4:''' Edit "local/settings.py" to match your local configuration. On blackbox.cs, it is sufficient to change the following lines:

{{{
SECRET_KEY = '***** This should be changed to a random string *****'
...
SERVE_STATIC = False
...
BASE_URL = 'http://domain.com/'
...
PROJECT_URL = BASE_URL + 'custominstallerbuilder/'
}}}

to the following:

{{{
SECRET_KEY = 'RANDOM_STRING'
...
SERVE_STATIC = True
...
BASE_URL = 'http://blackbox.cs.washington.edu:PORT/'
...
PROJECT_URL = BASE_URL
}}}

{{{RANDOM_STRING}}} should be a random string of your own choosing — do not share it with others. {{{PORT}}} must be an open port number greater than 1024. For smaller port numbers, administrative privileges are required.

 * '''Step 5:''' Still within the "custominstallerbuilder" directory, run the django test server:

{{{
$ ./manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:PORT
}}}

This command assumes that the Seattle standard library (located in 'trunk/seattlelib') is in your Python path.

You should now be able to access your Custom Installer Builder test server at the address specified for BASE_URL above.