= Deploying the Custom Installer Builder =
This page outlines how to deploy the [CustomInstallerBuilder Custom Installer Builder] using common Apache configurations. See also our instructions on [wiki:Archive/CustomInstallerBuilderInstallation installing], [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderConfiguration configuring], [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderCustomizationAndBuild customizing], and [wiki:Archive/CustomInstallerBuilderTesting testing] your Custom Installer Builder site.

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----

== Configuring Apache + mod_python ==
As noted in the [wiki:Archive/CustomInstallerBuilderInstallation installation instructions], we will use Apache as the front-end web server to our Custom Installer Builder.

Insert the following text into the appropriate area of your Apache configuration file. For simple deployments, the text may be added to the end of the `httpd.conf` file. The configuration will also work within a `VirtualHost` directive, for example.

The directories within `PythonPath` should be modified to match your system configuration. In the following line, `django.root` should match the URL segment given in the `Location` directive. As always, disable debugging once you have successfully deployed the Custom Installer Builder.

For more information on deploying Django projects with mod_python, reference the [http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/deployment/modpython/ Django website].
{{{
#!sh
<Location "/custominstallerbuilder/">
  SetHandler python-program
  PythonHandler django.core.handlers.modpython
  
  SetEnv DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE custominstallerbuilder.local.settings 
  PythonPath "['/home/cib', '/home/cib/custominstallerbuilder/repy_runtime'] + sys.path"
  PythonOption django.root /custominstallerbuilder
  PythonInterpreter custominstallerbuilder
  
  PythonDebug On
</Location>

Alias "/custominstallerbuilder/static/" "/home/cib/custominstallerbuilder/html/static/"
<Location "/custominstallerbuilder/static/">
  SetHandler None
</Location>
}}}


== Other configurations ==
The Custom Installer Builder is a normal Django project. General instructions for [http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/deployment/ Deploying Django] can be found on the Django project website. Make sure that the path to the Repy runtime is within your Python path, regardless of your deployment method.


= Updating the base installers =
New base installers should be placed into the `~/custominstallerbuilder/html/static/installers/base` directory. To force pre-built installers to be rebuilt upon next request, execute this command:

{{{
#!sh
$ python /path/to/custominstallerbuilder/manage.py cleaninstallers
}}}


= Using integration tests =
There are two integration tests available in the "/path/to/custominstallerbuilder/tests" directory. They expect the "integrationtestlib" and "send_gmail" modules to be in the Python path. Each file must be edited to point to a running instance of the Custom Installer Builder XML-RPC interface.