= Testing the Custom Installer Builder =
This page outlines how to deploy the [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilder Custom Installer Builder] using Django's built-in test server on a Linux system. For production-level deployment on a real web server, reference [wiki:Archive/CustomInstallerBuilderDeploymentWithModPython these instructions] instead.

We'll assume that you have completed the previous steps to [wiki:Archive/CustomInstallerBuilderInstallation install], [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderConfiguration configure], and [wiki:CustomInstallerBuilderCustomizationAndBuild customize] your local Custom Installer Builder already.

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----
== Revisit Django settings ==

Under the Custom Installer Builder's user account, edit `custominstallerbuilder/local/settings.py`  to match your local configuration. Ensure that the following items are set up correctly:

{{{
SERVE_STATIC = True
...
BASE_URL = 'http://your-actual-custominstallerbuilder-test-url:PORT/'  # Note the trailing slash!
...
PROJECT_URL = BASE_URL
}}}

If you are testing locally, you will use {{{http://127.0.0.1:PORT/}}} for the `BASE_URL`. You may use your public facing IP if you want it to be accessible via the Internet. {{{PORT}}} must be an open port number greater than 1024. For smaller port numbers, administrative privileges are required.



== Start Django test server ==
Ensure that the environment variable `PYTHONPATH` includes the Repy runtime directory. Then, from the `~/custominstallerbuilder/` directory, run the Django test server:

{{{
#!sh
$ export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/home/cib/custominstallerbuilder/repy_runtime
$ cd ~/custominstallerbuilder
$ ./manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:PORT   # This will log some information to the prompt
Validating models...

0 errors found.
Django version 1.3.5, using settings 'local.settings'
Development server is running at http://0.0.0.0:8080/
Quit the server with CONTROL-C.
}}}

You should now be able to access your Custom Installer Builder test server at the address specified for `BASE_URL` above. Don't worry if the media files (images, CSS, JavaScript) are missing for the time being. The [wiki:Archive/CustomInstallerBuilderDeploymentWithModPython production deployment guide] will add the missing bits and pieces of configuration to rectify that.
