= Testing the Custom Installer Builder =
This page outlines how to deploy the Custom Installer Builder using Django's built-in test server.


[[BR]]
= Current procedure =

Assuming you are deploying on the seattle.cs test server, this is the procedure to follow for the current version of the Customized Installer Builder.

== Running Customized Installer Test Server ==
----

'''In all that follows, $USERNAME refers to your account name on seattle.cs.'''

 * '''Step 1:''' Get ivan to create a Django settings file for you on seattle.cs. This file will live in /home/ivan/geni_dev_private/ and will be called settings_$USERNAME.py, 

 * '''Step 2:''' Modify your .bashrc file to add two new paths to the PYTHONPATH environment variable, and to create a new environment variable:

{{{
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/home/$USERNAME/geni_dev_private/:/home/ivan/web_installers_dev/:/home/$USERNAME/trunk/:/home/ivan/geni_dev_private/:/home/$USERNAME/geni_dev/:
export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE='web_installers_private.settings_$USERNAME'
}}}


You should log out and log back in for the changes to take effect in your shell.   (You can also start a new shell by typing {{{bash}}})

 * '''Step 3:''' Checkout Seattle project trunk, and make web_installers importable from python:

{{{
$ svn co svn+ssh://$USERNAME@seattle.cs.washington.edu/seattle/trunk/

  # This will check out the Seattle trunk from SVN
  # The commands below assume that this trunk is located in /home/$USERNAME/trunk/

$ mkdir /home/$USERNAME/web_installers_dev/
$ touch /home/$USERNAME/web_installers_dev/__init__.py
}}}


 * '''Step 4:''' Run the customized installer test server from the web_installers_dev directory using the 'django-admin.py runserver' command. This command takes a single argument IP:PORT. If you would like the server to be accessible externally, the IP should be 128.208.3.86 on seattle.cs. The PORT needs to be something that does not conflict with existing applications. A good number to try is something in the 8K range. Here is example code:

{{{
$ cd /home/$USERNAME/web_installers_dev/
$ django-admin.py runserver 128.208.3.86:8090
}}}

 * '''Step 5:''' If you see the following output, your server is running and is accessible at http://128.208.3.86:8090/

{{{
Validating models...
0 errors found

Django version 1.0.2 final, using settings 'web_installers_private.settings_$USERNAME'
Development server is running at http://128.208.3.86:8090/
Quit the server with CONTROL-C.
}}}

 * '''Step 6:''' Note that the settings file remaps customized installer's URL_PREFIX. This means that you should use http://128.208.3.86:8090/web_installers_dev/customized_installer/ for accessing your test server.


[[BR]]
= Future procedure =

'''Note:''' This version of the Custom Installer Builder is not yet available in the SVN tree. This documentation exists for future reference.

For the future version of Custom Installer Builder, follow this procedure.

 * '''Step 1:''' Check out the Custom Installer Builder from the SVN repository.

{{{
$ svn co https://seattle.cs.washington.edu/svn/seattle/trunk/customizedinstallerbuilder/
}}}

 * '''Step 2:''' From within the "customizedinstallerbuilder" directory, copy the "local_template" folder to "local".

{{{
$ cd customizedinstallerbuilder
$ cp -R local_template local
$ cd local
}}}

 * '''Step 3:''' From within the "local" directory, edit "settings.py" to match your local configuration. On blackbox, it is sufficient to change the following line:

{{{
PROJECT_URL = 'http://domain.com/custominstallerbuilder/'
}}}

to the following:

{{{
PROJECT_URL = 'http://blackbox.cs.washington.edu:PORT/'
}}}

PORT must be an open port number greater than 1024. For smaller port numbers, administrative privileges are required.

 * '''Step 4:''' From within the "local" directory, run the django test server:

{{{
$ ./manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:PORT
}}}

You should now be able to access your Custom Installer Builder test server at the address specified for the PROJECT_URL.