= Lipstick on a Pig Exception Hierarchy Proposal =

== Overview ==

The [wiki:Lipstickonapig Lipstick on a Pig] strike force is attempting to create a standard exception hierarchy for repy to provide a unified method to allow users to handle exceptions within repy programs.

== Purpose ==

 Currently the Repy library has inconsistent treatment and use of exceptions, which can be confusing and off-putting for new users. Our goal is to come up with a clear, uniform and logical way to present exceptions. The repy library functions have specific needs and goals, and the reflection hierarchy we're proposing reflects this.

 The hierarchy we designed is meant to account for the specific types of errors which can arise in Repy. The heirarchy in Repy is meant to be used in conjunction with some native Python exceptions, where it makes the most sense. For example, having network exceptions for repy library calls made sense, while creating wrappers for python exceptions such as !TypeError and !ValueError did not.  
 * Repy has specific needs, so we're attempting to target the needs
 * Make use of existing python exceptions where it makes sense
 * Hierarchy was designed to account for the specific types of errors which can happen, up to the general errors which some library calls all apply to
 * PythonException tree is separate from RepyException and is used to show that the two exception hierarchies are distinct

== Proposed Repy Hierarchy ==

Below is our proposed exception hierarchy. The !RepyException tree is separate from !RepyException to show how the two are meant to be distinct, although !RepyException is a subclass of Python's Exception. 
{{{
RepyException
 |
 +-- IOError
   |
   +-- NetworkError
     |
     +--AddressError (wrapper for socket.gaierror and socket.herror)
     +--DisconnectedError (whether from the start, or suddenly)
     +--TimeoutError (when a host times out)
   +-- DiskError
     |
     +--FileNotFoundError
     +--InvalidFileModeError
 +-- ResourceError
   |
   +-- ResourceExhaustedError (too many files opened/used?)
   +-- ResourceNotAllowedError (using a port that's not allowed)
     

PythonException
 |
 +-- ValueError (these two are particularly important for library call's performing argument checks)
 +-- TypeError 
 +-- 
 +-- Any exceptions raised by python builtins: KeyError (dicts), etc
 +-- Builtins generated by programmer mistakes AttributeError, IndexError, NameError, etc
}}}


== Comparison to Python ==

 * Python library calls tend to throw type errors when arguments of the wrong types are passed in, so Repy mimics that
 * Value errors are when an invalid value, but correct type, such as a negative when expecting a positive are passed into a function.
 * Instead of cryptic Socket.* errors, Repy uses a clearer exception name. (Ex. Socket.gaierror vs AddressError)

TODO: Example user code to catch a network/file error, compared to how it would look with only python code.
=== Network Example ===
In native python, socket errors are defined in the socket module. Since repy has no concept of modules, and doesn't allow imports, it doesn't make sense to use the code snippet below.
{{{
#!python
import socket

try:
  socket.gethostbyname_ex("somerandomhostname")
except socket.error:
  #recover from error
}}}

Instead, the code would look like
{{{
#!python
try:
  gethostbyname_ex("somerandomhostname")
except NetworkError:
  #recover from error