= Geni HTTP =

The GENI portal runs on Apache and uses mod_python to interface with django. This page describes how to restart the service, make sure that its running, deploy it, etc.

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----

== Settings ==
----

The Apache settings can all be found in /etc/apache2/.

The primary configuration file (that specific the django path, and URL mappings, http/https mappings, etc) is /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default

Note that the GENI site uses a SSL certificate and uses https:// (port 443) for all URLs that map into the GENI portal.

[[BR]]
== Django setup ==
----

The GENI django code is currently hard-coded in Apache config file 000-default to live in /home/geni/geni_production/. The Django settings module must have the path geni_private.settings. Typically the directory layout used by Django is the following:

{{{
/home/geni_production/
 |
 |-- /home/geni_production/geni/          <-- GENI code deployed with /trunk/www/geni/deploy_geni.py
 |
 |-- /home/geni_production/geni_private/  <-- contains settings.py
 |
 |-- __init__.py                          <-- blank file enabling import of geni.*
}}}

[[BR]]
== Deploying Django code ==
----

To deploy django code into production, first run the /trunk/www/geni/deploy_geni.py script from Seattle SVN. Assuming that the GENI trunk is checked out into ~/trunk/ then the following command will deploy the GENI portal from ~/trunk/ into /home/geni_production/geni/ -- where Apache will find the code.

{{{
$ export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:~/trunk/ && ~/trunk/www/geni/deploy_geni.py /home/geni/geni_production/geni ~/trunk/
}}}

Second, you '''must''' restart Apache in order for the deployment to take effect (see next section below).

[[BR]]
== Starting/Stopping/Restarting Apache ==
----

Log into seattlegeni.cs as root or run the following commands as sudo to start/stop/restart apache:

To start apache
{{{
$ /etc/init.d/apache2 start
$ /etc/init.d/apache2 stop
$ /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
}}}

[[BR]]
== Making sure that its running ==
----

You can check whether Apache is running by running the following command and making sure that you see entries for '/usr/sbin/apache2 -k start'

{{{
$ ps auwx | grep apache2 | grep -v grep
}}}


[[BR]]
== Apache Dependencies ==
----
 * [mod_python http://www.modpython.org/] -- necessary for interfacing with Django code
 * [OpenSSL http://www.openssl.org/] -- necessary for https:// support
 * [Django http://www.djangoproject.com/] -- necessary to run Django code

[[BR]]
== Related ==
-----

 * GeniInstallation -- Information about installing the GENI portal and dependencies from scratch.