= GENI portal Installation !HowTo =

This document explains how to do a fresh install of the GENI portal on
a new machine that is running a Debian-like Linux operating system,
such as Ubuntu.

For information on how to deploy geni once you go through this tutorial, see GENIPortalTesting.

----
[[TOC(inline)]]
----

[[BR]]
== Install Apache and !MySql ==
----

Start off the installation by installing Apache, Apache's python module, mysql, a python interface to mysql, and ntp (for time synchronization):

{{{
#!sh
$ apt-get install apache2 libapache2-mod-python
$ apt-get install mysql-server python-mysqldb
$ apt-get install ntp
}}}


[[BR]]
== Install Django ==
----

Install the latest official release of Django by following the
instructions at the following page: http://www.djangoproject.com/download/

[[BR]]
== Create a geni user ==
----

The geni user will be in charge of running the GENI website, and have
access to the GENI database. You can create a new user from the
command line with the following:

{{{
#!sh
$ adduser --home /home/geni --shell /bin/bash geni
}}}

[[BR]]
== Configure mysql for Django use ==
----

GENI relies on having a database that supports [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID ACID properties]. Thus your mysql database must use the InnoDB storage engine instead of the default MyISAM engine. You must change the default storage engine '''before''' you create any django tables as they'll be created with the MyISAM engine by default. To change this default, add the following line to your mysql's cnf file (typically located in /etc/mysql/my.cnf), under the [mysqld] section:

{{{
#!sh
[mysqld]
default-storage_engine = innodb
}}}

After you make this change, restart mysql by issuing {{{/etc/init.d/mysql restart}}} from the command line.

At this point you can create the 'geni' mysql database and add a 'www' mysql user who will access the geni database. Here are the commands to do this, the first of which starts the mysql shell: 

{{{
#!sh
$ mysql -u root -p

mysql> create database geni;

mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES 
ON geni.* 
TO 'www'@'localhost'
IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
}}}


[[BR]]
== Get the GENI code ==
----

Check out the geni directory from Seattle SVN into geni's home
directory (this checkout is anonymous and read-only):

{{{
#!sh
$ svn co http://seattle.cs.washington.edu/svn/seattle/trunk/www/geni/
}}}

This checkout will create a directory /home/geni/geni/ containing all the files you need to run the GENI website. This
directory, however, is missing a crucial file called settings.py which
is used by Django to specify django paths, database
usernames/passwords, etc. This file is not included in the SVN (for security reasons), but
here is a stripped down version of this file that you will modify to fit your installation:

{{{
#!python
# Django settings for geni project.

DEBUG = True
TEMPLATE_DEBUG = DEBUG

ADMINS = (
    # ('Your Name', 'your_email@domain.com'),
)

MANAGERS = ADMINS

DATABASE_ENGINE = 'mysql'         # 'postgresql_psycopg2', 'postgresql', 'mysql', 'sqlite3' or 'oracle'.
DATABASE_NAME = 'geni'            # Or path to database file if using sqlite3.
DATABASE_USER = 'www'             # Not used with sqlite3.
DATABASE_PASSWORD = '...'         # Not used with sqlite3.
DATABASE_HOST = 'localhost'       # Set to empty string for localhost. Not used with sqlite3.
DATABASE_PORT = ''                # Set to empty string for default. Not used with sqlite3.

# Local time zone for this installation. Choices can be found here:
# http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_zones_by_name
# although not all choices may be available on all operating systems.
# If running in a Windows environment this must be set to the same as your
# system time zone.
TIME_ZONE = 'America/Los_Angeles'

# Language code for this installation. All choices can be found here:
# http://www.i18nguy.com/unicode/language-identifiers.html
LANGUAGE_CODE = 'en-us'

SITE_ID = 1

# If you set this to False, Django will make some optimizations so as not
# to load the internationalization machinery.
USE_I18N = True

# Absolute path to the directory that holds media.
# Example: "/home/media/media.lawrence.com/"
MEDIA_ROOT = '/home/geni/geni/media/'

# URL that handles the media served from MEDIA_ROOT. Make sure to use a
# trailing slash if there is a path component (optional in other cases).
# Examples: "http://media.lawrence.com", "http://example.com/media/"
MEDIA_URL = '/geni/media/'

# URL prefix for admin media -- CSS, JavaScript and images. Make sure to use a
# trailing slash.
# Examples: "http://foo.com/media/", "/media/".
ADMIN_MEDIA_PREFIX = '/geni/admin_media/'

# Absolute path to the directory that holds admin media files.
ADMIN_MEDIA_ROOT='/home/geni/geni/admin_media/'

# Make this unique, and don't share it with anybody.
SECRET_KEY = '...'

# List of callables that know how to import templates from various sources.
TEMPLATE_LOADERS = (
    'django.template.loaders.filesystem.load_template_source',
    'django.template.loaders.app_directories.load_template_source',
)

MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
    'django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware',
    'django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware',
    'django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware',
)

ROOT_URLCONF = 'geni.urls'

TEMPLATE_DIRS = (
    # Put strings here, like "/home/html/django_templates" or "C:/www/django/templates".
    # Always use forward slashes, even on Windows.
    # Don't forget to use absolute paths, not relative paths.
    '/home/geni/geni/templates/'
)

LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL='/geni/control/'
LOGIN_URL = '/geni/accounts/login'

AUTH_PROFILE_MODULE = 'control.user'

INSTALLED_APPS = (
    'django.contrib.auth',
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    'django.contrib.sessions',
    'django.contrib.sites',
    'django.contrib.admin',
    'geni.control',
    'geni.accounts',
)
}}}

Assuming that you will be serving the GENI website from
/home/geni/geni/, you have to change only a few variables in
settings.py. See the instructions below. '''After you make the
necessary modifications, place settings.py into /home/geni/geni/.'''

{{{
#!python
# If you've installed mysql then this is the correct setting,
otherwise choose the appropriate setting for your database setup
DATABASE_ENGINE='mysql'

# Change to your preferred database user for the GENI website
DATABASE_USER='www'

# Change to the host that is serving your database
DATABASE_HOST='localhost

# List the password for the www database user
DATABASE_PASSWORD='...'		

# This needs to be a unique string generated by django: run
# '$django-admin.py startproject tmp_project' and extract a new
# SECRET_KEY from tmp_project/settings.py. Then delete
# tmp_project/
SECRET_KEY = '....'		

# Paths: leave these default settings if you are going to serve the
# website from /home/geni/geni/
MEDIA_ROOT = '/home/geni/geni/media/'
TEMPLATE_DIRS = '/home/geni/geni/templates'
ADMIN_MEDIA_ROOT = '/home/geni/geni/media/'
}}}

You might also want to modify the TIME_ZONE variable and a few others
where appropriate.

[[BR]]
== Set up the right PATH variables ==
----

The GENI codebase needs to know where to find the topmost 'geni'
module. Additionally, you have to specify the name of the settings
module. If you've named the settings file from the previous step
'settings.py' and saved it in the /home/geni/geni/ directory then the
these variables (typically set in the geni user's ~/.bashrc file for
convenience) should look like this:

{{{
#!sh
$ export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/home/geni/
$ export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE='geni.settings'
}}}

[[BR]]
== Configure Apache sites ==
----

To provide encryption, GENI relies on SSL. Therefore you will need to
setup two !VirtualHost entries at the minimum: one for connections to
port 80 (HTTP), and one for connections to port 443 (SSL). Here is a
minimal sites files to serve the geni website from:
https://mysite/geni/. Note that in this snippet, the second
!VirtualHost entry assumes that you have a server certificate and key
files setup, and the Location directive assumes that your geni
installation lives in /home/geni/ and that your django settings module
is geni.settings. The first !VirtualHost is only provided to redirect
all connections to '''http'''://mysite/geni/* to use
'''https'''://mysite/geni/*.

{{{
#!sh
NameVirtualHost *:80
NameVirtualHost *:443

# HTTP
<VirtualHost *:80>
 <Location /geni/>
        redirect permanent /geni/ https://mysite/geni/
        Options FollowSymLinks
    </Location>
</VirtualHost>

# SSL
<VirtualHost *:443>
    ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
    SSLEngine on
    SSLCertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/server.crt
    SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/apache2/ssl/server.key
    SSLCertificateChainFile /etc/apache2/ssl/gd_intermediate.crt

    <Location /geni/>
        SetHandler python-program
        PythonHandler django.core.handlers.modpython
        SetEnv DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE geni.settings
        PythonOption django.root
        PythonDebug On
        PythonPath "['/home/geni/'] + sys.path"
    </Location>
</VirtualHost>
}}}

To configure SSL you will probably need to install openssl to generate a private key/CSR (Certificate Signing Request), and then possibly purchase a certificate for your site. For more information see [http://slacksite.com/apache/certificate.php this page].


[[BR]]
== Restart Apache ==
----

Finally, restart Apache after you are done making adjustmenets to the
geni sites file.

{{{
#!sh
$ /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
}}}

[[BR]]
== Create the GENI database tables ==
----

Finally, you need to setup all the necessary mysql tables in the geni
database. Run the following commands from within /home/geni/geni/:

{{{
#!sh
$ python manage.py syncdb
}}}


[[BR]]
== Conclusion ==
----

Congratulations! You should now have a fully operational GENI
web-interface that you can access at https://mysite/geni/