= Strike Force =

strike force (n.) -- an armed force, usually small in size, that is equipped to deliver a strong offensive.


I'm considering using a slightly different philosophy this quarter.   Rather than dividing tasks by individual, we'll try to set a small team on each task and have them focus their efforts.   Project members will belong to one or more teams and will be responsible for helping those teams to meet their goals.   There will be weekly coding sprints (Saturdays) where Justin and Ivan will be available to try and push the teams to meet their deadlines.   There would likely be ~2 teams that would sprint toward different goals on the same day and Justin and Ivan will work alternatively with them as needed.

The requirements are:
(1) all the team members must meet for at least 2 hours on whatever day the team decides on among themselves (likely Saturday). Its all or nothing I think.

(2) we have to meet in the Seattle lab -- if we can't use it for this then its useless to us -- we have to actively improve any deficiencies it might have

(3) the entire time in the meetings is spent on Seattle work 



Here is a list of the Winter 09 teams:

----

== Sleight of hand ==
''Armon, Dennis, Eric''

NAT traversal, IPv6, and DHCP support.

----

== Micro-machines ==
''Armon, Carter, Mitchell''

Portability to mobile devices, location services, and MobileASL project support.

----

== [wiki:EyeCandy Eye candy] ==
''Sean, Alper''

Seattle/GENI website, and web back end improvements.

----

== Infection and Recurrence ==
''Brent, Carter, Cosmin, Sal''

Deployment onto nodes, black box testing / repeated testing, and software updates.

----


== Indoctrination ==
''Alper, Michael, Sal, Eric''

Educational support, auto-grading, and student support.

----


== Top Secret ==
''Michael, Andreas''

TCP over UDP flow control, anonymous donation, and other interactions with Tor project.
----


== Bot Master ==
''Brent, Sean''

Reading remote logs, "service interface" on nodes, backup software update mechanism.

----

== Measure twice, cut once == 
''Brent, Armon, Carter, Anthony''

Benchmarking service, actually getting 10%, and dynamic resource re-allocation.

----


== Lipstick on a pig ==
''Andreas, Sean, Mitchell''

Output improvements, exception handling, and seattle lib clean-up.

----

== 2 + 2 = ? ==

''Anthony'' '''Not accepting new members'''

Better RSA implementation

----

== [wiki:Lisping] ==

''Alper'' '''Not accepting new members'''

Porting !MapReduce, Hadoop integration, and possible integration with end applications

----

== Speciesism ==

''Cosmin'' '''Not accepting new members'''

Optional isolation of traffic to within Seattle nodes, possible replacement for OpenDHT, and simple service composition.

----
