

[[BR]]
== Introduction to Seattle Donation ==
----

   By running Seattle on your home computer, workstation, or computer, you
   are helping everyone using the Beraber framework! By making your
   donation available to Seattle users, you are allowing users to try new   topologies of nodes. This enables both more accurate representations of
   Internet (increased and varied latency times) and allows more
   undergraduates, graduate students, and professors to test their
   hypotheses on a internetwork-like testbed without charge.

   On the download page, you may notice that it details that you are
   donating resources on behalf of a specific user. By downloading the
   installer from this page, you are donating resources to be owned by the
   user detailed on this page. The owner of the donation then has the
   flexibility to organize permissions and allocate vessels to specific
   users and the general Seattle public.

   The philosophy of the Seattle project is use donationed resources in a
   way that is secure (including performance-isolation). Programs that run
   donated resources are isolated so that a program can't write or read
   files it isn't supposed to or do other bad things to your computer. The
   Beraber framework also ensures fair play with each donation by
   isolating the performance of your programs from the programs that run
   on donated resources. Our promise to you is to use no more than 10% of
   your computer's resources XXX: footnote{Computational resources are    things like RAM, CPU time, network bandwidth, and hard drive space.
   We're working on allowing you to reset the percentages or absolute
   value to allow you to change the amount. }.

[[BR]]
== Installing Seattle ==
----

   Running Seattle on your machine is easy. Simply start the install
   script ({{{install.bat}}} on Windows or {{{install.sh}}} on other OSes)
   and the application will do three things. 

(1) start the main communication program, nmmain.py (standing for node manager main thread)

(2) start up the software updater

(3) insert Seattle into your startup queue (crontab for linux/apple, startup items for windows) so that it runs whenever you reboot or login.

   


[[BR]]
== Pausing Seattle ==
----

   To pause the execution of Seattle, run the python script
   {{{seattlestopper.py}}} (or use the script {{{stop_seattle.sh}}}). To unpause, run
   the python script {{{seattlestarter.py}}} (or use the script
   {{{start_seattle.sh}}}). During the paused period, your computer's resources 
   will not be consumed by student programs.

[[BR]]
== Uninstalling Seattle ==
----

   If you decide to end your donation, Seattle can be uninstalled simply
   by running the python script {{{uninstall.py}}} (or the script {{{uninstall.sh}}}).
   This process will remove Seattle from the startup queue, deactivate the
   main thread, and remove the execution from the user's crontab (if
   applicable).   You can then safely delete the folder you installed Seattle in to completely remove it from your system.

[[BR]]
== Comments or Questions ==
----

   We would also like to know about your experiences with Seattle. If you
   have any questions or comments please drop a message to our Seattle
   user list! We're always striving to make a better experience for all.
