'''Justin'''

  * We aren't getting enough tickets closed. The only people who closed tickets this
    week are Conrad and Anthony, and they're busy working on a paper, too.
  * Splitting time between papers and other work (paper with Eric, work with Jenn,
    other paper).

'''Jenn'''

  * Autograder API (?) is done.
  * Autograder management script is done and works.
  * Working on testing.
  * Justin suggests we need to make sure we have tests and examples for something
    that isn't just client/server.

'''Kon'''

  * Finished deporting deploy_main over to the parallelize library.
  * Has been running on personal server for a few days, just making sure it
    works as expected before deploying on blackbox.
  * Will commit by Wednesday (Kon will be leaving on Wednesday).
  * Working with Monzur on how to write some tests.
  * Looking into problem with much fewer nodes advertising than expected.

'''Conrad'''

  * Working on paper. Looking at ways to statically analyze what low level
    system calls are made by programs.
  * Working to remove import cycles in our code.
    * Only one remaining circular import chain left in our code.
  * Justin requests: next, there's a change to look at/test out with
    how repyhelper applies restrictions.

'''Anthony'''

  * Working on paper. Looking into how many system calls, etc. are called
    when using our api.
  * Started going through python bug reports to understand their frequency
    of bugs, severity, number that would impact us, etc.
  * Currently looking at main python bugs tracker.
  * Justin says: Total number of calls aren't important. It's more important to
    understand which calls are done only on startup and which are done at
    when we run user code, as well as which different arguments are passed
    to the syscalls.

'''Jason'''

  * Working on rewrite of installer creator to be a separate django app
    with both an html and xmlrpc frontend.
  * Should be ready by the end of the week.

'''Zach'''

  * The new installer (include the new make_base_installer) is done.
  * Still working on testing.
  * These changes will have the installer extract a seattle/ directory and
    a subdirectory in there called seattle_repy/ that has the bulk of the files
    (basically the same as seattle_repy/ now). Now there will only be a couple
    of files in the main extracted directory (license, readme, install script, etc.)

'''Monzur'''

  * Looking into problem of nodes not advertising.
  * Working on socket semantics change ... (?)

'''jsamuel'''

  * Working on namespace module and the paper.
  * Gave a demo of some seattlegeni on blackbox reports. In the process, and while
    talking to Anthony and investigating why his installation he did during the
    meeting didn't show up, it appears the transition scripts are leaking memory and crashing as a result.
    Monzur will look into this and setup monitoring of seattlegen on blackbox.
  * There are more interesting cases for us to be looking for in the db/to include
    in reports. These can help us figure out things that are wrong or non-optimal.