'''Justin'''

  * Paper submitted.
  * Will be giving multiple talks starting this weekend. We need to be sure
    to keep things very stable.
  * Various things are broken that should have been caught before by people
    running the tests.

'''Cosmin'''

  * Working on making containment system scale.

'''jsamuel'''

  * Ticket questions for the people at the meeting:
    * #300: do we want to indicate on the myvessels page when the node an
      acquired vessel is on has become inactive/unreachable by us?
    * #450: keygen daemon, do we need it or can the ticket be closed
      until it's clear that it's needed?

'''Jason'''

  * Working on installer creator. Mostly testing on different browsers.
    Works with E6+, Firefox 1.5+, almost working on Chrome.
  * Implemented caching of created installers.

'''Monzur'''

  * Working on NAT forwarder advertising stuff.
    * On a lot of nodes it wasn't running ("safe exception problems").

'''Jenn'''

  * Not very available this week.