'''Justin'''

This week:
  * Created 29 tickets.
  * Closed 35 tickets.
  * Jenn closed the most tickets.
  * Erik, Monsur, Conrad, Anthony, and Zack closed important tickets.
  * Conrad found and fixed an important bug with writelines in repy that had been around a while.

Refresher: how to use the ticket system. Please take a look at ManagingTracTickets.
  1. Create a ticket.
    a. If it's your ticket for an enhancement, for example, explain high level what you're going to do.
    a. If it's a bug, give details about how to reproduce it / what you saw.
  1. Commit the fix.
    * In the commit message, say "This is a fix for problem X in #518". That is, be sure to use a hash mark right in front of the ticket number.
  1. Close the ticket, and say "Fixed in rXXX", be sure to write the letter "r" in front of the revision number from your commit.

0.1j appears to be ready to go, problems on windows don't appear to be related to the installer.

Two things added to style guide this week:
  1. Don't use os or other command execution methods, read the style guide to see what to do.
  1. Don't use change directory in code.

'''Monzur'''

This week worked on backporting code from integration tests and deployment scripts. Did a handful of sysadmin stuff.

'''Eric'''

Rolled out service deployment and monitoring program (to run an arbitrary service on an arbitrary number of geni nodes). Problem ran into while doing this with having geni not releasing resources. While held up on that problem, for now have used a static service deployment that only runs it on ten nodes.

Also made changes to time.repy.

Also opened a bug about repy, repyhelper, etc. that we should talk about more.

'''Jason'''

Got xmlrpc server up and running and started working on client library for the an xmlrpc server client. Currently testing the client/server combo.

'''Kon'''

Got the log/status/node monitoring/analyzing page up and running.

'''Conrad'''

Found and fixed bug in writelines. Also working on logfile corruption. Also switching over popen calls to better approach.

'''Vjeko'''

Working on unit testing framework for seattle. It looks like we'll extend the existing testing framework rather than building a new one. Hopefully by next meeting will have

'''Anthony'''

Working on getting installer to perform check for cryptographically strong PRNs. Also working on way to actually get 10% of system resources (hopefully to be ready for 0.1k, adds Justin hopefully).

'''Yafete'''

Still working with Eric to come up to speed.

'''jsamuel'''

Wrote lockserver for new seattlegeni. Working this week on basic layout of all of the new seattlegeni so that I can get feedback and more people involved in the rewrite.

'''Jenn'''

Worked on autograder, finished the backend of it. Uses a database now.

'''Zach'''

Worked with Eric on the problems on the time.repy module.