'''Justin'''

This week:
  * We had a debacle this week and currently have half of the nodes on 0.1i (intentionally)
    and the other half on 0.1j (unintentionally). We're about ready to launch 0.1k and
    we will update all nodes to that. jsamuel will discuss more (see notes below).
  * Traveled to first progress meeting of the year.

Ticket counts this week:
  * Created 31 tickets
  * Closed 12
  * Nobody has closed more than one ticket besides Justin.
    * We need more people working on closing tickets!
  * We may plan to have another bug weekend (or possibly bug week)


'''Erik'''

This week, found a bug in nmAPI.py. Worked on a one-hop layer to allow connectivity to nodes that aren't directly accessible.

'''Jenn'''

Worked on autograder to make it looks presentable and other changes.

'''Conrad'''

Working on fixes that allow files with spaces in names (popen issues, such as were found by Erik).

Found bug where read-only files can't have data being written to them being flushed, causes error. Will make it so that the flush isn't passed on to the underlying object in that case.

Can't test on testbed-mac. Justin offered to help test changes.

'''Jason'''

Testing geni api xmlrpc server.

'''Kon'''

Worked on scripts to check the node state. Has not deployed the code yet. Should be up tomorrow.

'''jsamuel'''

Accidentally launched 0.1j this week due to not taking the time to correctly understand the update pushing scripts and the updater. Was trying to update the packages used by the custom installer, but those aren't actually updated by a script (should have been built manually to include tests and then manually copied to where the customized installer looks for the base installers).

'''Vjeko'''

Working on the testing framework. Will be rewriting run_tests.py. Came to consensus with Justin with how the testing framework will be (clean, modular, and generic). Will give a demo in a moment.


'''Zack'''

Spent a lot of time debugging the Windows bug (#520 ?) including during the accidental release time.