= Meeting Notes for June 22, 2009 =

[[BR]]

== Individual Reports ==

'''Justin'''

1 year here, mostly works on seattle.

Announcement: GENI Engineering Conference coming up. GENI is one of our main sources of funds. They 
have a few conferences a year. We should attend and demonstrate what we've been working on.
We will be looking for people from our project for July 20-22 who want to attend it (here in Seattle).
It's a good opportunity for grad school-bound students.

Everyone at the meeting scheduled weekly meetings on either Thursday or Friday with Justin.

In the last week:
  * We closed 32 tickets last week. (This included outdated ones, though.)
  * Undergrad with most closed tickets: Monzur (9 tickets)
  * Opened 21 tickets.

'''Monzur'''

Involved since May 2008. Mentor has been Ivan. Monzur is taking over sysadmin work. Manages/monitors test machines and critical processes.

Last week: wrote monitoring script which is monitoring Advertising Server.  The monitoring scripts send email and post to irc if anything fails.
Got the freebsd test system setup. Starting to work on pinging servers to check that they are up.

'''Eric'''

Senior. Working on project for a few quarters. Currently working on NAT traversal library (to allow making connections to systems behind a NAT so resources behind NATs can be donated, etc.). This will be using the backed xmlrpc server to acquire resources.

'''Vjeko'''

Starting working on seattle this/last quarter. Talking with Justin about working on unit testing framework. Reading books/etc. about testing/unit testing. Will be posting info on the wiki when he has documentation about how he feels it will work for seattle (hopefully in the next week) so we can give feedback.
Justin emphasized that he'd like base cases of testing to be as simple as possible, Vjeko agreed.
Vjeko would like to have test modules rather than individual test files.

'''Jenn'''

Works on autograder. About autograder: instructor comes up with problem set, and instead of instructor testing student programs individually the autograder grades them.

Last week has been working on separating instructor and student views (django views).

'''Yafete'''

Part of the Undergrad Research Program. Just coming up to speed and will be working with Eric.

'''Huy'''

Coming up to speed. First assignment will be to work on the pickle library.
Will be focusing on pickling basic types, not complex types.

'''Tanya'''

Just started on the project. Looking at the seattlelib code and ensuring understandability and that the code matches style guide. Creating missing tests.
Next will be checking that the wiki is up to date.

'''jsamuel'''

Just started on the project last week (and forget to mention he's a full-time employee for the summer).
Talked about redesign of SeattleGeni, will be sending out a design doc wiki page this week for people to give feedback on.

'''Kon'''

Been with the project since mid-last quarter, just started getting more involved recently.
Working on auto-deployment scripts. Wants to be able to run separate testing scripts, monitoring scripts, to be able to obtain more information about the state of the system and details of what is not working and why.
Logs from previous version of nodemanager and softwareupdater didn't explain well what problems were (logs weren't verbose enough).
Current version just released has better logging.
Within next week goal is to have a simple website running that will display information about status of nodes and details of problems.

'''Jason'''

Been on the project one month. Working on the backend xmlrpc server. Pretty close to being finished, needs user authentication. Will be helping jsamuel with seattlegeni.

== Discussion ==

We're going to do away with Strike Force names (e.g. "eye candy") and give descriptive names as needed.

When assigning tickets, if you don't know who to assign to you can assign it to Justin.
