'''Justin'''

There's another project in our geni cluster that we might be able to act as a
replacement for dht. If anyone is interested in looking at this, let Justin know.

code deployment an monitoring system: Eric has worked on a forwarder for NAT
traversal, Zach did something for tunneling NTP traffic, but we need a monitoring
and deployment service that someone can make sure a service stays running, etc.
If anyone is interested in working on this, let Justin know.

Found significant bugs this week, started working on those. They are either
in repy or cross-component.

Ticket count this week:
closed 10
opened 5
Monzur closed the most tickets this week (3)

'''Monzur'''

This week worked on seattle ping program to ping our servers and make sure
they are up.

Want to deploy the key daemon soon. Want to move autograder to blackbox.

'''Eric'''

This last week, working on a special purpose deployment monitor, but it's not
general enough to use for anything but the NAT forwarder. (nodmanager and
seash changes finished.)

'''Yafete'''

This last week, finished all of the tutorials and have been working with Eric
to come up to speed.

'''Jason'''

This week, got the geni xmlrpc service available over https and a client that
will talk to it over https. Still need to check if server certificate is
valid. Still need to write unit tests.

'''Huy'''

Continued working on the pickle implementation. There are details of the
implementation require detailed understanding to get it implemented.

'''Kon'''

Working on automated deployment / monitoring script, hopefully will have
it running by this Friday. Later on will allow retrieving detailed
information about failures on nodes, etc.

'''Conrad (I think)'''

Working on repy bugs and incomplete documentation. The repy bug he's
working is a bug in the seattlelib xmlrpc client. Can't get the
subprocess bug to fail in the same place as Armon.

'''Anthony'''

Just about finished up module for importing ssh keys. Working on
adding binascii module. Working with Zach (?) on getting an actual
10% of nodes rather than the generic resources file.

'''Jenn'''

Working on autograder which now has separate pages for instructor
as students. Right now instructors can upload their own grading
tests and assignments. Working on rewriting the upload code
which is very old.

'''Vjeko'''

This last week has been focussing on a unit testing framework,
which has conceptually been finished but not fully implemented.

Request to other students: take a look at the wiki page for the
unit testing framework and give feedback.

'''Tanya'''

Working on cleaning up code in seattlelib.

'''Zack'''

Working on cleaning up installers. Some of it is pretty crazy and
he's working on improving it. Getting close to finishing with it.