Contributing/README.md, before:

# Getting Started

This page has useful information for prospective contributors to the Seattle 
Testbed project.

# Welcome
Thank you for your interest in joining the Seattle Testbed project.  To bring 
you quickly up to speed to being an active contributor, we ask that you do 
the following:

 1. Start by reading the [Seattle docs](../README.md). This will give you a 
 better sense of what Seattle is and how its structured, and contains pointers 
 to the programming documentation as well.

 2. Join our [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!forum/seattle-devel)!
 This is where you can find help and look for interesting news relating to 
 Seattle Testbed.

 3. Pick a few issues from [our repositories](https://github.com/SeattleTestbed) 
 to work on.  You should look for issues with the "Newcomer" label.  Before you 
 start working on an issue, reassign it to your GitHub account so that other 
 newcomers don't end up duplicating your work.  Comment on any findings or 
 insights that you may have, and also post any concerns or questions that arise.  
 
 4. When you are done with your issue, make sure your code adheres to our 
 [code style guidelines](../Programming/CodingStyle.wiki).  Have someone else on 
 the team review your code.  When they give you the OK, send a pull request.  
 If your code is good, someone will merge in your changes.

 5. After completing the above, contact the mailing list so that you can join 
 some of the regular weekly meetings.  You should talk to some of the other 
 contributors to help you find the projects that interest you the most.


== Stuck? ==
We are willing to provide you with assistance, but you must first demonstrate 
to us that you have at least attempted to solve the problem.  Questions should 
be concise and to-the-point.  Take a look at Eric Raymond's 
["How To Ask Questions The Smart Way"](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html). 
Read this before asking questions.

If you are still stuck, try asking on our Google group.  Feel free to post 
a new topic if your question isn't already addressed in an existing topic 
(but follow the rules above about asking questions the smart way).  You can 
also stop by Justin's lab at RH 221 to interact with other students working on 
Seattle and its related projects.

Commit message:

Reference ContributorsPage in contributor's readme

Contributing/README.md, after:

# Getting Started

This page has useful information for prospective contributors to the Seattle 
Testbed project.

# Welcome
Thank you for your interest in joining the Seattle Testbed project.  To bring 
you quickly up to speed to being an active contributor, we ask that you do 
the following:

 1. Start by reading the [Seattle docs](../README.md). This will give you a 
 better sense of what Seattle is and how its structured, and contains pointers 
 to the programming documentation as well. The [Contributor's Page](ContributorsPage.wiki) 
has even more reading material and links.

 2. Join our [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!forum/seattle-devel)!
 This is where you can find help and look for interesting news relating to 
 Seattle Testbed.

 3. Pick a few issues from [our repositories](https://github.com/SeattleTestbed) 
 to work on.  You should look for issues with the "Newcomer" label.  Before you 
 start working on an issue, reassign it to your GitHub account so that other 
 newcomers don't end up duplicating your work.  Comment on any findings or 
 insights that you may have, and also post any concerns or questions that arise.  
 
 4. When you are done with your issue, make sure your code adheres to our 
 [code style guidelines](../Programming/CodingStyle.wiki).  Have someone else on 
 the team review your code.  When they give you the OK, send a pull request.  
 If your code is good, someone will merge in your changes.

 5. After completing the above, contact the mailing list so that you can join 
 some of the regular weekly meetings.  You should talk to some of the other 
 contributors to help you find the projects that interest you the most.


== Stuck? ==
We are willing to provide you with assistance, but you must first demonstrate 
to us that you have at least attempted to solve the problem.  Questions should 
be concise and to-the-point.  Take a look at Eric Raymond's 
["How To Ask Questions The Smart Way"](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html). 
Read this before asking questions.

If you are still stuck, try asking on our Google group.  Feel free to post 
a new topic if your question isn't already addressed in an existing topic 
(but follow the rules above about asking questions the smart way).  You can 
also stop by Justin's lab at RH 221 to interact with other students working on 
Seattle and its related projects.
