'''Justin'''

  * opened 6 tickets and closed 5 tickets.
  * reminder: be sure to commit things you've fixed even if you've
    already provided the fixed version to the person who needs it.
  * first "future repy api" meeting tomorrow, please read current draft
    before coming (for any attending).

'''Eric'''

  * Working on cleaning up code from thesis and other stuff.
  * Working on finishing up thesis paper in the next week.

'''Yafete'''

  * Working on proxy issues and viewpoints.

'''Armon'''

  * Working on api for determining used resources.
  * dynamic imports are in svn and usable.

'''jsamuel'''

  * should look at the serialize module to see if support 
    for recursive object references can be added there (as I
    added them this week)
  * more work on experimentlib

'''Zack'''

  * Been working on getting info and a decision on a few things related
    to the installer. It looks like we have consensus on the windows
    installer (add option for admin to create a separate account to run
    Seattle as a service).
  * Will be adding a value not the nodecfg regarding crontab and
    also adding check for it in the nodemanager.

'''Conrad'''

  * Looking at the opendht issues that were still capable of causing
    timeouts to not happen properly, think it's fixed.
  * Mentoring new student Evan. Pointed him to some specific bugs
    this week.

'''Monzur'''

  * Working on fixing some of the quirks from the trac upgrade.
  * The Nokia 800 has a hostname and static ip now.
  * New students have access to the various testbeds, etc.

'''Jenn'''

  * Reading papers this week on resource manager/allocation systems.

'''Cosmin'''

  * Working on writing up thesis. Have updated containment wiki page.
  * Mentoring new student: Yoon
    * He's still finishing up his starting project.