= textops.py =

Provides text-processing utility functions loosely modelled after GNU coreutils. See http://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/ for more details.

Currently supports a subset of the functionality of grep and wc.


=== Functions ===

{{{
def textops_rawtexttolines(text, linedelimiter="\n"):
}}}
   Converts raw text (a string) into lines that can be processed by the functions in this module.

   Notes: [[BR]]
   * text is the text to convert into lines (basically, a sequence of strings).
   * linedelimiter (optional, defaults to "\n"): The string denoting an EOL ("\n" on Unix, "\r\n" on Windows).
   * Raises TypeError on bad parameters.
   * Returns a sequence of strings; each element is a line, with newlines removed.


{{{
def textops_grep(match, lines, exclude=False, case_sensitive=True):
}}}
   Return a subset of lines matching (or not matching) a given string.

   Notes:[[BR]]
   * match is the string to be match.
   * lines are the lines to filter.
   * exclude (optional, defaults to false). If false, include lines matching 'match'. If true, include lines not matching 'match'.
   * case_sensitive (optional, defaults to true). If false, ignore case when comparing 'match' to the lines.
   * Raises TypeError on bad parameters.
   * Returns a subset of the original lines.


{{{
def textops_cut(lines, delimiter="\t", characters=None, fields=None, complement=False, only_delimited=False, output_delimiter=None):
}}}
   Perform the same operations as GNU coreutils' cut.

   Notes:[[BR]]
   * lines are the lines to perform a cut on.
   * delimiter (optional). Field delimiter. Defaults to "\t" (tab).
   * characters (optional). Characters selector. Used to select some subset of characters in the lines. Should be a sequence argument. Caller must use one of characters or fields; not both.
   * fields (optional). Fields selector. Used to select some subset of fields in the lines. Should be a sequence argument. Caller must use one of characters or fields; not both.
   * complement (optional). Invert which characters or fields get selected. Defaults to False.
   * only_delimited (optional). When selecting fields, only include lines containing the field delimiter.
   * output_delimiter (optional). When selecting fields, join fields with this (defaults to the input delimiter).
   * Raises TypeError on bad parameters.
   * Returns the cut lines.

